








































ABB India Ltd (ONF)(100517).pdf


—
ABB INDIA LIMITED – ANNUAL REPORT 2016 

Committed to 
unlocking value



—
ABB  
the pioneering technology leader

—

What

Offering

—

For whom

Customers

—

Where

Footprint

Pioneering technology

Products 

63%

Projects 

25%

Service 

12%

Of revenue

~ 37 % 

Of revenue

~ 52 % 

Of revenue

~ 11 % 

Utilities Industry

 

Transport &  

Infrastructure

India

40 

factories

10

manufacturing 

locations

22

sales and marketing 

offices

Revenue

INR 8,648 crore

Exporting to 

> 100 countries 

Employees

~6,000



—

ABB at a glance

Committed to unlocking value

—

ABB is a pioneering technology leader in 

electrification products, robotics and  

motion, industrial automation and power 

grids, serving customers in utilities, industry 

and transport & infrastructure globally. 

Continuing more than a 125-year history of 

innovation, ABB today is writing the future 

of industrial digitalization and driving the 

Energy and Fourth Industrial Revolutions.  

—

abb.com/in



4 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5

006 – 007 Highlights

008 – 009 Key achievements of 2016

010 Country Management Committee

011 Company Information

012 – 086 Statutory Reports

088 – 130 Financial Statements

—
Annual Report 2016
Contents

—

01

—

02



— 

Technology leadership drives orders 

to cross ` 12,000 crore mark for the 

first time

— 

Operational excellence results in 

consistent profitability improvement

— 

Strong cash position, significant 

improvement in net working capital 

levels 

— 

Board recommends dividend of ` 4 

per share (200 percent) in the 47th 

consecutive dividend issue

—
Highlights 2016

Description  2016  2015  2014 2013 2012

Sources of Funds

Shares capital  42  42  42  42  42 

Reserves  3,240  2,966  2,770  2,635  2,556 

Net worth  3,282  3,008  2,812  2,677  2,598 

Borrowings  600  600  371  620  328 

Funds employed  3,882  3,608  3,183  3,297  2,926 

Income and Profits

Revenue from operations  8,648  8,140  7,733  7,722  7,565 

Operating profit before Interest and depreciation  774  713  556  470  336 

Profit before tax  576  475  355  272  206 

Profit after tax  376  300  229  179  137 

Dividend/Dividend tax  102  94  94  75  74 

Retained earnings  274  206  135  102  64 

Other data

Gross fixed assets  2,114  2,071  2,004  1,910  1,703 

Debt equity ratio  0.19:1  0.20:1  0.13:1  0.23:1   0.13:1 

Net worth per equity share-`  155  142  133  126  123 

Earnings per equity share-`  18  14  11  8  6 

Dividend per equity share-`  4  4  4  3  3 

Profit after taxes as % to average net worth  12  10  8  7  5 

Orders received  12,466  8,100  7,908  6,717  6,966 

Orders backlog  11,821  7,946  7,926  7,709  8,673 

Number of permanent employees  5,603  5,839  6,165  6,371  6,752 

(` in Crores)

Five-year highlights

6 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016



14% Electrification Products 

19% Discrete Motion and Automation  

9% Process Automation

58% Power Grids

20% Electrification Products 

26% Discrete Motion and Automation  

15% Process Automation

39% Power Grids

2016 

Orders by division

2016 

Revenues by division

— 

Number of employees

— 

Dividend (` per share)

8000

7000

6000

5000

4000

3000

2000

1000

0

4.00

3.50

3.00

2.50

2.00

1.50

1.00

0.50

0

2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016* 

(*proposed)

ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 7



8 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Key achievements of 2016

—

01

Powering and automating world’s 

largest single location solar project

Commissioned substations with plant electrification 

and automation systems for the world’s largest  

single location 648 MW solar power plant at Kamuthi  

in Tamil Nadu.

—

05

Enhancing industrial productivity 

and Make in India

Commissioned largest industrial drive in India for an oil 

and gas application, reducing energy consumption by 

up to 30%.

—

02

Integrating clean energy with 

reliable power infrastructure

Integrating wind energy with one of the longest 

1,800 km ultra high voltage direct current link from 

Raigarh to Pugalur to bring power to 80 million 

Indians.

—

06

Improving civic infrastructure

Won an order to upgrade the SCADA, automation, 

control and instrumentation to ensure 24x7 water 

supply to Mysuru.

—

03

Modernizing Indian Railways 

Awarded a contract to supply 1,600 traction 

transformers for 800 new electric freight locomotives, 

supporting expansion in railways.

—

04

Restoring and modernizing crucial 

power infrastructure in record time

Restored Sharavathi hydroelectric plant to full working 

capacity post fire within 10 days and commissioned an 

integrated plant SCADA and automation solution in 

record time.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9

—

09

Driving the Energy Revolution

Engaged with leading transmission utilities for 

digital asset management technology.

—

10

Industry-academia collaboration 

with UAY scheme

Partnerships with IIT Madras for multi village microgrid 

modelling and with NITTTR for India’s first multi-

physics simulation lab to further make in India for 

power equipment.

—

07

Partnering India’s solar vision

Doubled solar inverter manufacturing capacity 

during the year, powering the country’s national 

solar priorities.

—

11

Continuing focus on safe work 

culture

Total number of Safety Observation Tours and hazard 

reporting up by 35% and 14% respectively from 2015 at 

ABB locations and customer sites.

—

08

Reducing carbon footprint at ports

Installed India’s first shore-to-ship solution to reduce 

emissions at Tuticorin port.

—

12

Improving quality of education

ABB India sponsored mid-day meals for 10,000 children 

daily across identified schools in Gujarat and Karnataka 

to address malnourishment and encourage attendance.



10 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Country Management Committee

From left to right 

Peter Stierli Head, Communications

Raja Radhakrishnan Head, Human Resources

Ralph Schultheiss Head, Legal and Integrity

T. K. Sridhar Chief Financial Officer 

Sanjeev Sharma Managing Director

Subir K Pal Division Manager, Robotics and Motion

Pitamber Shivnani Division Manager, Power Grids

Karthik Krishnamurthi Head, Country Sales & Marketing

C. P. Vyas Division Manager, Electrification Products

GNV Subba Rao Head, India Centre for Global R&D

Giandomenico Testi Chief Technology Officer

Madhav Vemuri Division Manager, Industrial Automation and 

Country Service Manager



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11

—
Company Information

—

Board of Directors

Frank Duggan Chairman

Sanjeev Sharma Managing Director 

Nasser Munjee 

Darius E. Udwadia 

Renu Sud Karnad 

Tarak Mehta

—

Bankers

AXIS Bank Limited 

Bank of America, N.A. 

Bank of Bhutan Limited 

Bank of India

Canara Bank 

Deutsche Bank AG 

HDFC Bank Limited 

ICICI Bank Limited 

IDBI Bank Limited

JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. 

Standard Chartered Bank 

State Bank of India

The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Limited 

The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 

Corporation Limited

UCO Bank

Union Bank of India

YES Bank Limited

—

Audit Committee

Nasser Munjee Chairman 

Darius E. Udwadia Member 

Renu Sud Karnad Member 

Tarak Mehta Member

—

Stakeholders Relationship Committee

Darius E. Udwadia Chairman 

Renu Sud Karnad Member 

Sanjeev Sharma Member 

—

Nomination and Remuneration Committee

Nasser Munjee Chairman

Renu Sud Karnad Member

Frank Duggan Member

—

Corporate Social Responsibility Committee

Renu Sud Karnad Chairperson 

Sanjeev Sharma Member 

Tarak Mehta Member

—

Risk Management Committee

Nasser Munjee Chairman 

Frank Duggan Member 

Sanjeev Sharma Member 

T. K. Sridhar Member 

Pitamber Shivnani Member

—

Registered Office

21st Floor, World Trade Center

Brigade Gateway  

No.26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road

Malleshwaram West

Bengaluru – 560 055

—

Corporate Identity Number

L32202KA1949PLC032923

—

Debenture Trustees

IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited

Asian Building, Ground Floor

No. 17, R Kamani Marg

Ballard Estate, Fort

Mumbai - 400 001

—

Registrar and Share Transfer Agents

Karvy Computershare Private Limited

No. 51/2, T.K.N. Complex

Vanivilas Road, Opp. National College

Basavanagudi

Bengaluru – 560 004

—

Auditors

Messrs S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP

Chartered Accountants

“UB City”, Canberra Block 

12th Floor, No.24

Vittal Mallya Road 

Bengaluru – 560 001

—

Cost Auditor

Ashwin Solanki & Associates 

Cost Accountant

D/104, Koyna, Shantivan

Near National Park

Borivali (East)

Mumbai 400 066

—

Chief Financial Officer and  

Chief Investor Relations Officer

T. K. Sridhar

—

Secretarial Auditors

Messrs HBP & Co. 

(now known as BMP & Co. LLP) 

Company Secretaries

No. 926, 20th Main

BSK 2nd Stage

Bengaluru - 560 070

—

Company Secretary and 

Compliance Officer

B. Gururaj



12 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13

016 – 032 Business Responsibility Report 

033 – 041 Notice to the Members

042 – 046 Directors’ Report

047 – 085 Management’s Discussions and Analysis  

 and other Annexures to the Directors’ Report

086  MD / CFO Certificate

0166 – 032 Business Responsibility Report

03033 – 041 Notice to the Members

04042 – 046 Directors’ Report

047 – 085 Management’s Discussions and Analysis 

and other Annexures to the Directors’ Report

080866 MD / CFO Certificate

—
01
Statutory Reports



14 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15

—
APALA RAY, CORPORATE RESEARCH, ABB ABILITY INNOVATION CENTER, BENGALURU

My team is faced with new 
technological challenges every day. 
Through innovation and 
digitalization, we create future-
ready solutions to address them.



16 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Business Responsibility Report 2016

Overview of sustainability 

at ABB India Limited

The Company is committed to sustainability with 

continuous improvements towards economic success, 

environmental stewardship and social progress. The 

Company maintains high social, environmental, human 

rights, ethical and governance standards for the benefit 

of all stakeholders. The Company’s sustainability 

objectives covers all domains of operations with emphasis 

on energy and resource efficient products, systems and 

services, ways of lowering its own energy intensity and 

waste, occupational health safety, environment, and 

community development. 

Sustainability considerations cover how the Company 

designs, manufactures, customer offerings, engagement 

with suppliers, assessment of risks and opportunities, 

and its engagement with communities where it operates 

and towards one another, while it strives to ensure health, 

safety, environmental safeguard and security of its 

employees, contractors and others affected by its 

activities. Corporate responsibility reflects the Company’s 

values and behavior to its stakeholders.

The Company has several policies and standards in place 

to underpin its sustainability core values, covering 

business ethics and governance, the Code of Conduct, and 

policies such as the Group Social1 and Human Rights2 the 

Supplier Code of Conduct, the Company’s Health, Safety & 

Environment Policy (HSE)3 and Corporate Social 

Responsibility (CSR)4 policies respectively. The various 

policies are further reinforced by various internal Group 

directives and instructions which are mandated within the 

Company’s operations, manufacturing locations, project 

sites and also on vendors; so as to address the Company’s 

sustainability goals across its value chain.

The ABB Group and the Company has over 125 years of 

experience in power and automation technology and to 

develop a complete portfolio of services for the renewable 

energy industry which covers virtually any requirement, 

from individual components for a wind turbine installation 

through to the turnkey delivery of onshore or offshore grid 

connection schemes. It has emerged as a pioneering 

technology leader with focus and having significant 

contribution to energy and fourth industrial revolutions. 

1. Group Social: http://new.abb.com/sustainability/social-policy

2. Group Human Rights Policy: http://new.abb.com/sustainability/human-rights-policy-and-statement

3. HSE Policy: http://new.abb.com/docs/librariesprovider19/default-document-library/hse-policy-poster_24-x-32-in_v5.pdf?sfvrsn=2

4. ABB India CSR Policy: http://new.abb.com/indian-subcontinent/investors/corporate-governance/india-corporate-social-responsibility

ABB aims for a culture of leadership at every level. The 

Company has always focused on sustainable business 

practices and to contribute towards world class 

sustainable solutions for a better world. The Company 

continues to hold a key position in the market in terms of 

designing and delivering frontier technology, 

infrastructure and sustainable solutions in various 

domains including the latest being sustainable mobility 

solutions. It’s focus has been on areas of electrification of 

all consumption points, robotics, intelligent motion 

solutions, industrial automation and on stronger, smarter 

and greener power grids. Sustainability considerations 

are woven into every business decision and the Company 

takes a complete life cycle approach to considering 

sustainability aspects i.e. from R&D to design, 

manufacturing, and also in third party supplier 

qualifications. 

It is a global leader in solar inverter technology, and has 

been powering solar projects across the country spanning 

the entire solar photovoltaic (PV) value chain, a key 

component of which has been the Company’s solar 

inverter technology, made in the country. About 50% of 

India’s solar energy generated passes through ABB 

equipment. The Company has supported and contributed 

to the Country Government’s vision of focus and providing 

for clean energy. Out of the country’s current installed 

solar capacity of ~8GW, utility scale projects would 

comprise 6.5 GW; to which the Company’s inverters have 

been supplied. The Company has also supported the West 

Bengal government’s initiative for solar electrification of 

schools by providing a cleaner and sustainable 

infrastructure for education. In the year, the Company also 

inaugurated a new solar inverter manufacturing facility in 

Bengaluru, India to cope with the doubling requirement of 

solar inverters and to provide for the surging focus on 

renewable based energy requirements in the country. 

As a global leader in shore to ship solutions, and in line 

with the Government of India’s ‘Project Green Ports’ 

project, the Company commissioned a state-of-the-art 

solution for shore-to-ship power supply at the Tuticorin 

Port which is a first of a kind installation at a commercial 

port in India. This solution expands the scope of the green 

agenda beyond renewable power to technology, which will 

enable ships docking at a port to plug for power instead 

of running on polluting diesel generators and using 

expensive power.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17

The Company is a forerunner in smart grids solutions 

which integrates renewable energy into the power supply 

system while optimizing the system’s reliability, energy 

efficiency and capacity utilization. These solutions have 

systems for controllable generation and storage and 

assist in matching the fluctuating levels of renewable 

power generation. Using data networks in real time, smart 

grids can intelligently and automatically control these 

increasingly complex power systems. The ABB Group is a 

pioneer in micro grid technology with more than 30 global 

installations across a diverse range of applications serving 

remote communities, islanded grids, utility grid support 

and industrial campuses. This innovative micro grid 

solution has been now extended for community use by the 

Company so that it helps communities by providing stable 

and cost-effective continuity of power supply while 

minimizing environmental impact under the Company’s 

Corporate Social Responsibility activities.

The Company’s ambition is being a leading supplier of 

innovative, safe and resource-efficient products, systems 

and services that help customers increase productivity 

while lowering environmental impact. ABB Group level 

targets have been set to increase revenue from the energy-

efficient portfolio by 20 percent from 2014 to 2020.

The Company recognizes the importance of wide-ranging 

stakeholder engagement to help it achieve best practices 

and sustainable benefit for all its stakeholders. The 

Company also strives for excellence in health and safety 

performance. The sustainability/ HSE team drives forward 

the Company’s key sustainability aims. It works along with 

business division’s sustainability members to embed 

sustainability aspects into all actions, to improve 

sustainability awareness, increase efficiency, helps create 

best practice to combat potential HSE risks and to 

improve performance across key sustainability 

performance indicators. 

The Company also introduced an integrated approach to 

statutory compliance management including HSE 

compliance in the year, in order to avoid conflicts, wasteful 

overlaps, gaps and to adhere to timely compliances. The 

Company recognizes that moving beyond compliance and 

integrating environmental management and social 

considerations into its core business processes offers it 

significant benefits. A number of sustainability programs 

initiated by the Group and at the Country level have been 

rolled out, for example safety awareness, reporting, 

adhering to list of chemical usage, human rights awareness 

and communication, social development projects etc. 

ABB Group has developed a series of business relevant 

sustainability objectives, in consultation with leaders in 

the business, countries and functions and external 

stakeholders. These objectives reflect ABB’s ambition and 

show how it intends to contribute to a more sustainable 

world. As a part of this work, individual targets and key 

performance indicators are being developed and rolled 

out. Progress is reported in the annual Group Sustainability 

Report. In line with the ABB Group’s sustainability strategy, 

the Company has set sustainability objectives and targets 

that are continuously monitored and along which action is 

taken.

Healthy and safe working 

environment

A strong culture of respect for workplace safety remained a 

top priority for the Company during the year. The Company 

has placed more emphasis on taking responsibility for 

the safety behavior of all and the focus was to embed a 

safety culture that puts safety first and its responsibility 

to all its employees and for those who work for the 

Company. The Company’s vision led by its management 

was to review the effectiveness of existing systems, 

understand gaps and strengthen implementation of set 

procedures. This focus and renewed drive, led to the 

launch of several new innovative initiatives on effective 

implementation through digitization, on various aspects 

of safety at all of the Company’s locations and activities. 

The Company also had multiple direct communications 

from the management in terms of safety priority and 

there were clear communication and directive from the 

management authorizing every employee to say “No” to 

any unsafe work.

The drive for safety was supported by bringing into force 

a comprehensive management approach to address 

safety through relentless monitoring, speed with 

elimination of hierarchy in matters of safety.

Some of the other key activities of the Company in the 

year have been promoting the ‘Don’t look the other way’ 

campaign stressing on safety, new systems and processes 

for review of safety aspects and procedures at projects 

sites, factories offices, increased performance 

measurements, self-assessments, audits and increasing 

the number of hazard reporting and safety observation 

tours. There was close monitoring on safety performance 

by the country level safety steering committee comprising 

of top level management on a weekly basis.

Apart from its own employees, HSE practices are 

mandated to the Company’s vendors and contractors as 

well. The Company has procedures to select contractors 

and service providers based on their competence and 

capability to undertake tasks in compliance with the 

Company’s health and safety measures. As a guiding 

principle, the Company prefers and wants to do business 

with suppliers who have implemented health and safety 

management systems that comply with OHSAS 18001: 

2007 standards. The Company’s management team 

worked closely with HSE teams on ensuring ABB rules are 

firmly rooted in every individual associated with the 

Company be it an employee or contractor. 



18 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

In addition, in terms of training and awareness, the 

Company is heavily focused on a culture change for safety. 

Apart from initiatives to increase hazard and near miss 

reporting, site observation tours to improve safety 

compliance in offices, factories and customers sites; 

safety related training and awareness sessions was a 

focus in the year of reporting.

The Company in 2016, clocked the highest number of 

hazards reporting compared to other ABB locations 

across the globe. A total of 81899 numbers of hazards 

were reported. There were continuous Safety Observation 

Tours (SOTs) by the management and reporting was 

further streamlined through a dedicated reporting and 

sharing repository. The total number of SOTs and hazard 

reporting increased by 35% and 14% respectively from the 

previous year. There has been significant surge in the 

SOTs by senior leadership in the year.

In the Company, during the year, out of total of 26.30 

million contractor man-hours worked and 22.12 million 

employee man-hours worked, there were 2 fatalities, 3 

serious injuries, 1 high potential incident, 7 lost time 

injuries, 38 medical treatment injuries and 594 first aid 

cases.5

In line with the ABB Group Safety campaign the Company 

observed the safety week across its facilities, offices and 

project sites from November 14 to 18, 2016. During this 

week, several activities around safety were planned and 

implemented such as special training and awareness 

sessions, announcement of the India HSE award, mock 

drills, various safety competitions, safety observation 

tours, awareness sessions on road safety, occupational 

health, and security. Key innovative and best practices 

were recognized and rewarded for in the India HSE award. 

Apart from this, the Company also observed the National 

Safety Day with the same vigor; where in varied safety 

awareness/ training activities were conducted across the 

Company.

Environmental compliance

The Company is compliant with all statutory requirements 

related to environment, and specific environment related 

challenges are addressed under direct supervision of 

plant heads. To ensure statutory compliance, periodic 

monitoring is carried out and necessary mitigation 

actions are undertaken. There were no pending show 

cause / legal notices from Central Pollution Control Board 

/ State Pollution Control Board for the year. There were no 

monetary fines/ penalties for Environmental non 

compliances paid by the Company during the year. 

A comprehensive HSE compliance training was conducted 

through an external trainer for all of the Company’s factory 

managers.

All of the Company’s facilities are certified compliant to 

ISO management systems namely ISO 14001:2004 and 

OHSAS 18001:2007. 

Energy and climate

From bringing customers energy and resource-efficient 

solutions, to doing business in a more environmentally 

sound way, the Company has made significant and 

tangible progress in the past year. The ABB Group 

supported a number of pledges signed by world leaders at 

Climate Change Conference of Parties (COP)-21 in Paris, 

including a commitment to scale up renewable energy and 

help emerging economies transition their markets to 

energy efficient products. At COP-22, ABB demonstrated 

how this commitment translates into products and 

services that enable access to electricity and improve 

lives. 

The Company has continued its efforts to mitigate climate 

change and lower environmental impact. In the year a total 

of 50,545 tCO
2
 was generated from scope6 1 and 2 of the 

Company’s operations. It had drastically reduced its diesel 

consumption last year and this year its focus was to 

reduce scope 2 emissions by sourcing green power and 

solar PV installations, the fruits of these efforts will be 

reaped in 2017.

The Company plans to have a fully integrated and 

standardized micro grid with rooftop photo voltaic at its 

largest facility in Vadodara, Gujarat to help it increase its 

renewable energy generation while reducing dependency 

on fossil fuel. The Company’s grid electricity consumption 

in the year was 56493 MWh and 59.4 MWh from in-house 

solar installations. 

The Company has also plans of reducing diesel 

consumption by establishing an on-site 66 kV substation 

at its facility in Mysuru which will ensure uninterrupted 

power supply. Conventional boilers at the Mysuru facility 

are being replaced by fuel efficient boilers to reduce its 

dependancy on fuel oil and increasing the use of eco-

friendly agro fuels. Lighting retrofits continue to help the 

Company achieve considerable reductions in energy 

consumption across many of the Company’s facilities.

5 Categories as defined by the Company

6 Categories of scope 1 and 2 as defined by the WBCSD GhG protocol



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 19

Water management

The ABB Group has developed an in-house water tool to 

map and analyze water flows at its manufacturing facilities 

in water-scarce and extremely water-scarce watersheds. 

Facilities have used this tool to review water flows, analyze 

water-related threats to their operations, and develop 

water action plans to minimize risks and leverage 

opportunities. The Company is working towards becoming 

responsible stewards of water. Although majority of the 

Company’s manufacturing processes do not consume 

significant amounts of water, it is nonetheless committed 

to reducing its impact on local water resources.

The Company’s efforts are towards reducing dependency 

on fresh water including water efficient technologies like 

water efficient fixtures to reduce consumption, arresting 

leakages and usage of recycling water for landscape and 

flushing. The treated water quality is monitored 

periodically to ensure compliance to applicable 

environmental legal requirements. The Company has zero 

liquid discharge Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs). It 

continuously monitors its water consumption by 

installation of water meters for accurate measurements. 

The Company also ensures ground water recharge through 

infiltration wells to harvest rainwater. The Company’s 

freshwater consumption in most of its facilities is 

predominantly for domestic purposes and hence do not 

significantly impact water resources. Water withdrawal in 

the Company’s manufacturing facilities in the year was 

0.68 million m3 and recycles 25% of the water utilized in its 

facilities.

Waste management

The Company’s other key focus area is waste management 

wherein generation to disposal approach is adopted. 

Reduction of wastes at the source is undertaken by means 

of process optimization and reuse strategy. The Company 

has reduced the use of wooden pallets. Reuse of packaging 

wastes like carton boxes, Electro Static Discharge (ESD) 

covers, corrugated boxes, wooden pallets etc. has ensured 

reduced procurement of packing material while ensuring 

reduction in packaging wastes. Printed Circuit Board 

Assembly (PCBA) and used oil are also reused within the 

facility. All wastes generated are segregated at source and 

stored in designated areas in the scrap yard before 

disposal to the relevant Pollution Control Board (PCB) 

authorized recyclers. The Company has taken stringent 

targets to reduce wastes sent to landfill and has increased 

the recyclability of wastes by responsible sourcing. Of the 

total wastes disposed, 54% is recycled.

The Company understands that it is important to minimize 

the environmental impact related to its own manufacturing 

and service activities, and the real challenge is in reducing 

the impact along the whole value chain which includes the 

impact from its products, from material selection through 

production, operation and end-of-life treatment. A 

majority of ABB ś products have very long operating 

lifetime, hence, high efficiency and low emissions during 

operation of the product are essential in reducing the 

total environmental impact. 

ABB Group uses a process called the ABB Gate Model for 

product and technology development. Sustainability 

aspects are built into this model and includes a 

standardized Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) procedure. The 

ABB Group also develops Environmental Product 

Declarations (EPD) to communicate the environmental 

performance of core products over its entire life cycle. 

EPDs are based on detailed LCA studies conducted using 

the LCA model and declared according to international 

standard ISO/TR 14025. EPDs are available for over 70 ABB 

products such as power transformers, low voltage circuit 

breakers, gas insulated switchgears, current relays, etc. 

Sustainability parameters are monitored and are also 

consolidated yearly for various reporting purposes. The 

ABB Group has launched an online global tool for data 

collection of sustainability parameters for all locations. 

The country sustainability controller reports on all key 

sustainability parameters on an annual basis across the 

Company’s sustainability performance. The ABB Group 

prepares the Group Sustainability Report annually for 

public disclosure based on the Global Reporting Initiative 

(GRI) guidelines. The Company publishes the Business 

Responsibility Report every year as per SEBI’s requirement 

and this is part of the Company’s annual report.

Supply chain sustainability

As a responsible corporation, ABB extends its influence to 

ensure a responsible working environment to the 

ecosystem of direct and indirect stakeholders. This 

includes partners in the supply chain who share 

considerable footprint in the product value stream.

The ABB Supplier Code of Conduct is the core document 

on which the Company builds its efforts to source 

responsibly. The Supplier Code of Conduct7 defines 

requirements for ABB suppliers and is integrated with the 

General Terms & Conditions. The Company considers its 

suppliers as business partners and demand that they 

conduct their business consistent with the standards and 

principles of the Company, complying with a number of 

sustainability performance indicators including HSE 

regulations, internationally proclaimed human rights 

standards and ensuring equality of opportunity; are 

expected as the minimum level of commitment.

As a part of the Company’s continuous improvement, our 

ABB Supplier Code of Conduct was updated in 2016. The 

modifications more explicitly referenced zero tolerance to 



20 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

issues like forced labor and risk of engaging victims of 

slavery and human trafficking. The key supplier 

requirements are:

• Suppliers should conduct their business in an ethical 

manner

• Suppliers should respect human rights, ensure fair labor 

conditions 

• Suppliers should engage their supply chains to raise 

awareness about sustainability 

• Suppliers must commit to occupational health and 

safety and environmental protection; conduct their 

business in a safe and an environmentally sensitive way

• Suppliers should not use banned or restricted 

substances in processes

 

The Company has implemented a Supplier Sustainability 

Development Program (SSDP) as part of a comprehensive 

sustainable sourcing initiative. The goal of the SSDP is to 

ensure compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct, to 

support continual improvement of the sustainability 

performance of suppliers and to provide customers with 

a highly competitive and sustainable supply chain. Under 

the program, the Company trains suppliers and Company 

employees, and carries out supplier audits to identify 

areas of improvement in the following domain:

• General management

• Working hours

• Remuneration

• Social benefits

• Health and safety

• Environmental protection

In addition to regular trainings, the suppliers also have 

access to the ABB Supplier Sustainability Implementation 

Guide which provides practical advice on how to meet the 

requirements of the Supplier Code of Conduct. The 

Company also reviews the implementation of action plans 

by follow up audits. Suppliers were supported throughout 

the program for any kind of technical query.

In India in 2016, 1268 suppliers have been trained on 

sustainability requirements and 54 of them were assessed 

for such requirements. In addition to this, safety & 

environment risk assessment workshops were conducted 

at three manufacturing locations for suppliers. 87 

delegates from 53 suppliers attended this program. With 

these, the total number of suppliers trained under the 

program since 2009 stands at 5429 (may include suppliers 

who have undergone repeat trainings) and the total 

number of suppliers assessed stands at 25510. During 

2016, 4411 employees were trained in the program and 

internal teams made over 12412 visits to the suppliers to 

assess their systems.

 

This program helped the participating suppliers identify 

and mitigate risks and strengthen their systems. Through 

this program, the risk profiles of the selected suppliers 

have shown steady improvement, as depicted in the charts 

below (the charts represent the risk profiles of suppliers 

selected from 2009 to 2016, before and after corrective 

actions under the SSDP). At the end of 2016, 1813 suppliers 

who did not show commitment to fulfill the requirements 

of the Supplier Code of Conduct were blocked. Business 

with these suppliers can only resume after they have 

demonstrated compliance with the ABB Supplier Code of 

Conduct.

In order to further strengthen its responsible sourcing 

strategies, the Company is revisiting its sourcing process 

and is adopting additional controls. ABB did a 

recertification program for its internal lead assessors, 

under which seven ABB employees renewed there 

certificates after an onsite evaluation. Having employees 

who can conduct and evaluate sustainability performance 

of the suppliers will further embed the sustainability 

practices in sourcing activities.

7 ABB supplier code of conduct

8 Trainings-Q4 IN SSDP KPI Report

9 Ibid

10 Supplier Assessments- Q4 IN SSDP KPI Report 2016

11 Trainings- Q4 IN SSDP KPI Report 2016

12 Ibid- summation of assessments & reassessments in 2016 (Q1-Q4: 54+30+25+15=124)

13 Ibid- summation of blocked suppliers

Initial risk Current risk

Extremely high High Medium Low De-sourced

Initial risk 127 76 43 9 0

Current risk 39 20 20 158 18

Extremely high Medium Low De-sourcedHigh



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 21

Stakeholder engagement

ABB has been making greater efforts in recent years to 

engage formally with different stakeholders on 

sustainability issues. It is a recognition that the Company’s 

business success is closely tied to such exchanges, and 

the potential benefits of acting on the feedback we 

receive. ABB Group has produced a systematic approach 

to holding an effective sustainability stakeholder 

dialogue. The tool has been created to help record the 

details of the meeting, the main areas for discussion and 

potential follow-up measures. 

Stakeholder group Key identified stakeholders Details of stakeholder interactions

Internal stakeholders Permanent employees Various employee welfare programs, ongoing wellness & engagement HSE 

and sustainability programs, and awareness cum training sessions, Internal 

communication 
Contract employees

Business stakeholders Customers Various customer focused seminar / events and programs

Suppliers The SSDP and continuous ongoing interactions with vendors. 

Investors Annual general body meeting, quarterly analyst call, one to one meetings (need 

basis), factory visits (on request)

Distributors/Channel Partners Providing services / selling of the Company’s products or as a managed service 

provider

External Stakeholders Regulators Meetings and interactions for compliance requirements, permits etc. 

 Trade bodies Seminars, conferences and sharing good practices

 Peer companies Through industry bodies, associations, seminars, exhibitions and events

 International organizations Partnerships for R&D and CSR activities 

 Local communities Ongoing interactions for CSR activities with the communities

 Academia and scientific community Ongoing R&D and educational partnerships, seminars, meetings, campus connect 

programs, CSR activities, one on one interactions. 

 Media Seminars, meetings, and one on one interactions for communication and branding 

 NGOs and civil society organizations Partnerships and interactions for implementation of CSR agenda

 Trade Unions Right of all personnel to form and join trade unions of their choice and bargain 

collectively

 Consultants and certification bodies External advisory, assurance, certification services on various management 

process and systems for performance improvements of the Company through 

separate projects and assignments.

The Company’s key stakeholders are customers, investors, 

suppliers, representatives of civil society and employees. 

All stakeholders are increasingly asking the Company 

about different aspects of sustainability performance. 

This has helped the Company to understand their 

priorities as well as which areas of sustainability are 

material to its business success. 

Stakeholder mapping and profiling has identified the 

following stakeholders for the Company:



22 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

Various stakeholder meets have been conducted by the 

Company in the year. Contractor safety meets are done on 

a continual basis to bring contactors and vendors in line 

with ABB’s safety requirements and codes of practice. 

There have been a series of partnerships with premium 

research institutes in the country for research and 

development on frontier areas such as power, automation, 

renewable energy etc. The Company also participated in 

the ‘Switch India’ event organized at Vadodara, and its 

portfolio – from smart sensor motors, digital substations 

and micro grids etc. showcased the digital future of power 

and automation. The Company had several interactions 

with various Government Ministries and departments 

such as Department of Heavy Industries, Ministry of 

Power, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, National 

Skill Development Council etc., with a perspective on 

sustainability and to provide implementable sustainability 

solutions for the country. The Company is also an active 

member to key trade and industry associations in the 

country. Feedback and inputs received through 

stakeholder engagements are given due consideration 

and feasible good practices and recommendations are 

considered for integrating into the Company’s business 

practices. 

A total of 401 investor requests were received, all of which 

have been satisfactorily responded to during the year.

For employee participation and engagement, there are 

several ongoing initiatives. Also there were several 

management communications with emphasis on wellness 

& safety in daily work. Also for the senior management at 

the Company, the annual leadership meet was held to 

discuss on key topical issues of the Company. 

Advocacy, aid and corporate responsibility bodies

The Company is a member of a number of industry 

associations namely: 

• Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)

• Indian Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers’ 

Association (IEEMA)

• Swedish Chamber of Commerce 

• Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and 

Industry

• Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce 

As an active member of CII the Company participated in 

various forums on topics relevant to its business such as 

smart cities, sustainability, renewable energy etc. It also 

participated in a number of exhibitions organized by various 

other industry bodies

People well-being

The Company attracts top performers due to its inclusive 

culture. The people strategy is aligned with the Company’s 

overall ambition to accelerate sustainable value creation. 

This required continuing to provide a stable work 

environment in an uncertain market and maximizing the 

potential of the Company’s workforce. Through its 

evolving employee-friendly policies and processes, the 

Company’s Human Resources encouraged and 

demonstrated dynamism and openness to change. The 

Company has made strategic decisions in key Human 

Resources areas that has enabled growth in the Company 

and resulted in a performance-driven year.

During the year, the Company has consistently set a clear 

path to learn and adapt to perform better in the volatile 

market situation with its enhanced performance 

management and talent strategy, focusing on building a 

healthy pipeline by attracting, assessing and developing 

talent. In addition, persistent attention to providing an 

inclusive environment to promote diversity in gender, age 

and culture, including opportunities for global mobility, 

forms a part of the proactive plan to manage talent in key 

function areas. The Company’s Competency Model, 

aligned with the business strategy, helps realize its full 

potential, individually and as an organization.

As part of the next level strategy, in 2016, the Company’s 

Human Resources also made great strides in establishing 

world-class Global Business Services (GBS) organization 

and Centers of Excellence (CoE). These have been set up to 

make ABB faster, more agile and customer-focused, and 

ultimately, strengthen its position as preferred employer 

in a rapidly evolving market. Industrial relations remained 

cordial and harmonious across all manufacturing 

locations. 

Learning and development, and training

The Company’s learning and development (L&D) function 

focuses on leadership and professional development 

programs. However this function also provides project 

management programs like Project Planning, Analysis and 

Control (PPAC) and Project Management Application 

(PMA) training on need basis. All divisions have a technical 

training department which provides technical training 

programs to their respective employees. 

The Company’s L&D team is responsible for the 

implementation of Global Training Programs such as ABB 

Life, Leadership Challenge Program (LCP), manager 

development program, middle manager program etc. L&D 

Partners are spread across different locations to assist 

the business units with global and local training initiatives. 

The Company’s business units Human Resources teams 

are undergoing training to become trainers in their own 

locations for the near future. On the other hand, while 

most of the training initiatives are in-house, the Company’s 

L&D team as needed works closely with external agencies 

and vendors to meet its the demands of local training 

programs and for the required a level of expertise.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 23

Career development and opportunities

ABB encourages employees to progress within the 

organization as opportunities arise. Employees take 

responsibility for exploring and planning their future. 

Employees use career guide in their own career planning. 

The Human Resources function of the Company provides 

strong support to employees and managers in creating 

long term career plans.

The overall structure of career guide is clear and 

transparent. It helps the Company’s employees to get a 

better understanding of their career possibilities and 

development activities. The development needs are 

reviewed on a regular basis to determine actions required 

to perform and develop in the current role, in a satisfactory 

manner and to prepare for future roles within the 

Company. 

The Company’s Higher Education Sponsorship Policy 

supports in building-up technical competencies in 

interested employees by giving them an opportunity to 

enhance their academic qualification for engineering and 

related courses in areas relevant to ABB. This policy also 

aims to establish a benchmark policy of supporting 

employees in pursuing higher studies in line with the 

industry practice. 

 

The Company for many years now has collaborated with 

academia to promote R&D partnership and cooperation in 

various areas of pioneering technology relevant to the 

Company. ABB’s Academic Partnership Program (APP) 

launched across many leading Indian universities, has 

provided a platform for young, bright, talent to gain 

confidence and exposure to address complex industrial 

problems with innovative ideas and cutting-edge 

technologies in the areas of energy efficiency, renewables, 

water, power and automation for utility, industry, 

infrastructure and transportation. The key motivation is 

to sustain advanced research programs in top academic 

institutes of India.

The Company seeks to support bright young future 

technologists and enable them to gain hands-on 

experience. The selection criteria for partnering with a 

university for research is based on intense scrutiny and a 

stringent internal review process. This has resulted in 

proactive R&D cooperation projects with 18 Indian and 

two global universities to date, supporting eight doctoral 

and 13 Masters students during the last three years. The 

ongoing projects include topics ranging from robotics to 

software and energy storage engineering, thermal 

analysis, oil and gas, heterogeneous networks and many 

more. 

Sl. No. Key Human Resource statistics 2016

1 Total number of permanent employees 5,603

2 New employees added to the Company 386

3 Apprentice / Interns / Trainees 995

4
Total number of employees hired on contractual 

basis 
265

5 Of these how many were women 340

6 Number of permanent employees with disabilities 21

7 Recognized employee association Yes

8
Percentage of permanent employees who are 

members of the recognized association 
18.42%

Diversity and inclusion

The Company understands that diversity supports 

innovation and success and the Company strives to go 

beyond this. In line with the ABB Group vision and policy, 

the Company welcomes different ways of thinking and 

acting, different qualities and skills, different experiences 

and backgrounds and values them because as the 

Company is dedicated to being inclusive, recognizing and 

respecting all aspects of difference. 

As part of the Company’s efforts in this front, it references 

its principles outlined in the following:

• The Organization for Economic Cooperation and 

Development’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 

• The International Labor Organization’s Declaration on 

Fundamental Principles, and 

• The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human 

Rights

The Company is committed to provide a safe and 

productive work environment that promotes the 

confidence to work, to innovate and to perform without 

fear of any type of harassment. The Company has a ‘zero-

tolerance’ approach to any instance of sexual harassment. 

The Company’s policy on sexual harassment of women at 

the workplace provides an effective resolution for any 

instance of sexual harassment and aims to prevent / deter 

the commission of acts of such harassment. 

The Company has an Internal Complaints Committee for 

the prevention of sexual harassment as a part of the 

sexual harassment of women at workplace (Prevention, 

Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. This aims to provide 

protection against sexual harassment of women in the 

workplace and for prevention and redressal of complaints 

of sexual harassment and for matters connected therewith 

or incidentals thereto. The Company has the Internal 

Complaints Committee at each location and 

establishments (all locations where more than 10 women 

are employed). There were no complaints received by the 

said committee in the year

 



24 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

Customer engagement 

The Company values and respects its customers, and 

strives to meet and exceed its customer expectations. The 

Company as a pioneering technology leader offers its 

customers products and solutions that improve 

operational and resource efficiencies and performance. 

Feedback received from customers is used to improve the 

Company’s products, systems and services. Since 2010, 

the Company has adopted the Net Promoter Score (NPS) 

survey on an annual basis in order to understand how the 

Company is perceived by its customers. The customers’ 

response to the “recommend” question and the red card / 

green card feedback, tells the Company how it measures 

up to the customers’ expectations, highlighting the areas 

where it has performed well and those where it needs to 

do better. In the NPS survey carried out by the Company in 

2016, over 5,400 customer responses were received, 

representing a response rate of 62 percent. The NPS score 

rose to 61 percent, an improvement of over 2 percentage 

points as compared to the previous year.

The Company also has a cross-divisional initiative called 

Customer Contact Management (CCM) to improve the 

Company’s set-up and performance with respect to 

inquiry handling, thereby contributing to improved 

customer experience & satisfaction. The initiative 

comprises a country-level Contact Center which provides 

an easy-to-reach contact point for those customers and 

other business partners who do not know where to turn 

to. The Contact Center receives inquiries – which can be of 

any kind for any product, system or service - and routes 

them to the business units or functions in ABB for their 

response and resolution. The Contact Center does not 

replace but complements existing channels between a 

customer or other business partner and the business units 

and functions. The Contact Center is available all working 

days during working hours and the Company also has an 

all India toll free number and email where inquires can be 

sent.

In terms of addressing customer complaints there is a set 

process called the Customer Complaint Resolution 

Process (CCRP), an ABB initiative to capture and resolve 

customer dissatisfaction with its processes, products and 

services, in the most expedient way. The system is 

designed to address issues in the shortest time, and the 

issue is handled within a maximum of 72 working hours. 

These are resolved on-time, more consistently, according 

to agreed targets. Customers are also given the 

opportunity to confirm if they were satisfied with the 

solution provided and the way it was handled. There were 

a total of 3156 customer complaints received for the year. 

96.98 percent of all customer complaints received during 

the year have been resolved on time. 

Community engagement

The ABB’s Group’s Social Policy was adopted in February 

2001. It draws on five sources: the United Nations’ 

Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International 

Labor Organization’s fundamental principles on rights at 

work, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 

the Global Sullivan Principles and the Social Accountability 

8000 (SA 8000) standard, an auditable standard for the 

protection of workers’ rights developed by the Council on 

Economic Priorities Accreditation Agency. The Social 

Policy focuses on ABB in society, human rights, children 

and young workers, freedom of engagement, health and 

safety, employee consultation and communication, 

equality of opportunity, harassment and disciplinary 

practices, working hours, compensation, suppliers, 

community involvement and business ethics. 

The Company strives for excellence in integrity and social 

responsibility. The Company in line with its set Corporate 

Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy completed various 

community engagements with the intent of contributing 

to the vulnerable groups of society. Its activities were 

predominantly in and around regions of its operation with 

focus on key set CSR focal areas.

Several innovative projects were undertaken and fulfilled 

specifically in the area of access to electricity, differently 

abled and education. Access to electricity being a key area 

of Company’s interest, and with an objective of rendering 

the Company’s technical and product competency to the 

community, the Company partnered with a premier 

research organisation in the country to contribute towards 

frontier research in renewable energy and for 

implementation of smart/ micro grid for a remote village 

community in the country. 

In the area of education and differently abled, the 

Company’s focus was to bring in more educational and 

awareness programs for underprivileged children. This 

was effected through partnership with Non-Governmental 

Organizations (NGO) who have the proven track record 

and experience in the sector.

CSR spending is through the Company’s registered Trust 

namely the ABB India Foundation and is a mix of direct 

spending as well as through partnerships with verified 

NGO partners. During the year, the Company spent ` 740 

Lakhs on CSR activities as stipulated under Schedule VII of 

the Companies Act, 2013. 

Further a number of other projects that have been initiated 

with commitment with partnering originations, these 

would be implemented and completed in the forthcoming 

year. The total spend across various projects/activities is 

detailed in Annexure to the directors’ report 2016 on 

Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) activities.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 25

Respecting and promoting human rights

ABB Group recognizes that respect for human rights is a 

material issue and failure to do so can cause harm to 

people and adversely affect business, with potential legal, 

financial and reputational consequences. The Company 

follows the Groups Human Rights Policy, which is in place 

since 2007.  

The ABB Human Rights and Social Policies specifically 

refer to the ILO Core Conventions as the minimum to be 

achieved, with respect to non-discrimination, prohibition 

of child and enforced labor, freedom of association and 

the right to engage in collective bargaining. The ABB 

Group is trying to operationalize these principles in daily 

performance and in a coherent manner. Raising awareness 

of human rights is one of ABB’s nine Sustainability 

Objectives for 2014-2020. The Company’s managers and 

key personnel received the Human Rights training 

rendered by the ABB Group in the year.

The UN Guiding Principles are central to ABB’s Human 

Rights training. A global awareness-raising program for 

senior managers focuses on understanding how ABB can 

potentially impact human rights, the importance of due 

diligence and how the company is embedding human 

rights in business processes, and a global capacity 

building program is also under way to create a network of 

specialists in key countries. In addition, ABB Group 

supports a number of leading organizations in their 

efforts to improve corporate understanding of human 

rights issues. The Company, in line with the Group policy, 

seeks to raise its standards, and increase its 

understanding, and mitigation of human rights risk. In 

this reporting period, there have not been any grievances 

related to Human Rights in the Company. 

Integrity, transparency and accountability

The Company is committed to a high standard of integrity 

which is expected of every employee and in every activity. 

The Company has developed and implemented a 

systematic approach designed to prevent, detect, and 

resolve any potential integrity concerns. This is supported 

by tools and processes and a zero tolerance policy for any 

violations. The Company’s integrity program in line with 

the Group has created an environment where all of the 

Company’s employees can be open about identifying 

risks, asking questions, and raising concerns.

At the Company, integrity begins with leadership, 

responsibility and accountability. The integrity program 

relies on local management to lead by example. All local 

business unit managers regularly lead discussions about 

integrity issues to ensure that the ethics message comes 

from the same person that sets the business targets: 

“integrity is the business of the business”. With support 

from top leadership, local leadership, committed integrity 

resources, and partner resources (like Human Resources 

and Sustainability Affairs) the Company, is able to foster a 

strong and sincere culture of integrity.

The ABB Code of Conduct is the framework that explains 

the behavior the Company expects of every employee and 

stakeholder who work with it. It is applicable and expected 

to be adhered to by the Company’s employees, and all 

other stakeholders who work for the Company. 

Employees are not just encouraged, but are required to 

speak up and to report any suspected or observed 

violations of the law, or of the ABB Code of Conduct. 

Reporting channels / ethics hotline are available to report 

on any issues of non-compliances with respect to the 

Company’s integrity policy or the Code of Conduct. The 

Whistleblower Protection Policy of the Company creates a 

safe and confidential environment for employees to make 

such reports. This policy governs the reporting and 

investigation of alleged improper or illegal activities 

within the Company as well as the protection afforded to 

those employees who report them (the “whistleblowers”). 

In case of reported incidents, all reports are subject to 

appropriate investigation and are brought to full closure 

using systematic processes and tracking systems. 

The Company’s Anti-corruption Policy is stated explicitly 

in the ABB Group directive on bribery and anti-corruption 

and emphasizes key components which are essential to 

ensuring a strict compliance to anti-bribery laws but also 

refraining from corruption. Bribery can also take the shape 

of paying facilitation payments, which have been banned 

in ABB for several years now. The Company enforces a 

rigorous zero-tolerance policy against any involvement in 

bribery or corruption and has put in place robust policies 

to prevent bribery such as on gifts, entertainment and 

expenses, charitable contributions and representatives, 

and measures to ensure ethical supply chains. In addition, 

the Company’s policies mirror the principles set out in 

Transparency International’s publication, Business 

Principles for Countering Bribery, a multi-stakeholder 

framework for companies to benchmark their integrity 

and compliance programs.

The Company has strong program to detect and prevent 

non-compliant behavior and other integrity concerns. 

There are also frequent internal audits, anti-bribery 

reviews to detect, identify possible cases of non-

compliance on the Code of Conduct. The Company also 

runs an employee survey exercise to further understand 

attitudes, awareness and perceptions of integrity within 

the Company. The Company has also established different 

reporting channels internally on integrity issues and runs 

a business ethics hotline for any employee concerns on the 

subject.



26 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Links to the Company’s Policies and 
Programs
Group Sustainability:

http://new.abb.com/sustainability

India Sustainability:

http://new.abb.com/indian-subcontinent/about/sustainability

OHSE Policy:

http://www.abb.co.in/cawp/abbzh258/2b29259f7d32970dc1256f6b004f8842.aspx

Environmental Policy:

http://www.abb.com/cawp/abbzh258/20d663570aa2a7e0c1256d3c005b8fe6.aspx

Social Policy:

http://www.abb.com/cawp/abbzh258/79d754a977a2141dc1256d3d0028e101.aspx

Human Rights Policy:

http://www.abb.com/cawp/abbzh258/19e081068bd263d0c12574110055cfd7.aspx

Corporate Social Responsibility Policy:

http://new.abb.com/indian-subcontinent/investors/corporate-governance/india-corporate-social-responsibility

Sexual harassment of women at the workplace Policy:

http://in.inside.abb.com/cawp/gad00916/e2629cc057baae4065257b7a00241d25.aspx

Code of Conduct:

http://www.abb.co.in/cawp/abbzh252/45f145dc6cfc01cac12579b500315ed3.aspx

Supplier Code of Conduct:

http://www.abb.co.in/cawp/seitp161/1c85f0f085e972e4c12577680059b934.aspx

Corporate Governance 

http://new.abb.com/indian-subcontinent/investors/corporate-governance

Integrity Program (ABB Group):

http://www.abb.com/integrity

Whistle Blower Protection Policy

http://www.abb.com/cawp/abbzh252/21845729c59f494ec12579b50031d6f5.aspx

Energy Efficiency (ABB Group):

http://www.abb.com/energyefficiency

Access to Electricity:

http://www.abb.com/cawp/abbzh258/051d295b8c237da0c1256f6500462ea5.aspx

Community Program for Differently-abled people:

http://www.abb.co.in/cawp/seitp202/5b64260a18f6459ac1257abc003b22a9.aspx

Supplier Sustainability Development Program:

http://new.abb.com/about/supplying/sustainability

Note:

The Business Responsibility Report (BRR) in format as specified by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), pursuant to Regulation 34 (2) (f) of SEBI (Listing 

Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is attached to this report.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27

Business Responsibility Report 2016

(As per Regulation 34 (2) of the Listing Regulations, 2015)

SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY

SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY

SECTION C: OTHER DETAILS

1. Corporate Identity (CIN) of the Company L32202K1949PLC032923

2. Name of the Company ABB India Limited

3. Registered address 21st Floor, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway, No 26/1,  

Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram West, Bengaluru 560 055

4. Website http://new.abb.com/indian-subcontinent

5. E-mail id investor.helpdesk@in.abb.com

6. Financial Year reported 2016

7. Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity code-

wise)

1. Manufacture of electric motors, generators, transformers and 

electricity distribution and control apparatus - 271

2. Manufacture of other electrical equipment - 279

3. Manufacture of electronic components - 261

4. Manufacture of measuring, testing, navigating and control equipment; 

watches and clocks – 265

8. List three key products/services that the Company manufactures/

provides (as in balance sheet)

1. Switch gear of all types

2. Transformers

3. Electronic control and supply units for variable speed drives for other 

applications

4. Motors and other machines

9. Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by 

the Company

36

A Number of International Locations (provide details of major 5): 4

Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan

B Number of National locations: 32 

10. Markets served by the Company-Local/State/National/International India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Middle East and Africa,  

South-East Asia, Europe and Americas.

1. Paid up Capital (INR) 42.38 Crore

2. Total Turnover (INR) 8,713.64 Crore

3. Total profit after taxes (INR) 376.25 Crore

4. Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as a 

percentage of profit after tax (%)

1.97%

5. List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred: Refer CSR report attached to the Directors’ Report

1. Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ Companies? No

2. Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies participate in the BR 

Initiatives of the parent company? If yes, then indicate the number 

of such subsidiary company(s)

Not Applicable.

3. Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, distributors etc.) that 

the Company does business with, participate in the BR initiatives of 

the Company? If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity/

entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]

Yes. More than 60%.



28 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

SECTION D: BR INFORMATION

1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR

(a) Details of Director/Directors responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies

(b) Details of the BR Head

2. Principle –wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies

(a) Details of compliance (Reply in Y/N)

1. DIN Number 07362344

2. Name Sanjeev Sharma

3. Designation Managing Director

No. Particulars Details

1. DIN Number (if applicable) NA

2. Name Vipin Upadhyay

3. Designation Country Sustainability Manager

4. Telephone number 080-22949144

5. e-mail id vipin.upadhyay@in.abb.com

No. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9

1. Do you have a policy/ policies for.... 

P1. Environment, Health and Safety Policy

P2. Corporate Social Responsibility Policy

P3. Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace Policy

P4. Anti Corruption Policy

P5. Whistle Blower Protection Policy

P6. ABB Group Social Policy

P7. ABB Group Human Rights Policy

P8. ABB’s Code of Conduct 

P9. ABB Supplier Code of Conduct

Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

2. Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant 

stakeholders?

Yes

3. Does the policy conform to any national / international standards? If 

yes, specify? (50 words)

Yes

4. Has the policy being approved by the Board? 

Is yes, has it been signed by MD/ owner/ CEO/ appropriate Board 

Director? 

A few of the policies have been approved by the Board and other policies 

which are ABB Group policies are adopted by the Company.

5. Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/ 

Director/ Official to oversee the implementation of the policy?

The Company is having a committee for CSR, Sexual Harassment of 

Women at the Workplace. For the other policies, the Company is having 

adequate internal control on its implementation.

6. Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online? Please refer to the section on ‘Links to the Company Policies and 

Programs’ section of the detailed BRR document

7. Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal 

and external stakeholders?

Yes

8. Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/ 

policies.

Yes

9. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to 

the policy/ policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to 

the policy/ policies?

Yes

10 Has the company carried out independent audit/ evaluation of the 

working of this policy by an internal or external agency?

Yes



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 29

(b) If answer to the question at serial number 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick up to 2 options)

SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE

3. Governance related to BR

(a) Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, 

Committee of the Board or CEO to assess the BR performance of 

the Company. Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 

1 year

3-6 months.

(b) Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What 

is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is 

published?

Yes. The Business Responsibility Report is published annually.

http://new.abb.com/docs/librariesprovider19/default-document-

library/brr_2015.pdf?sfvrsn=2

Principle 1

1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only 

the company? Yes/ No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ 

Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others? 

No. It extends to the Group/Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors, 

NGOs and Others.

2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past 

financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the 

management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 

There were 401 investor grievances received, off which all of them have 

been satisfactorily resolved.

Principle 2

1. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has 

incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or 

opportunities. 

(a) Gas insulated switch gear

(b) Low voltage circuit breakers

(c) Large Distribution Transformer 

2. For each such product, provide the following details in respect of 

resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of product 

(optional): 

(a) Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution achieved 

since the previous year throughout the value chain? 

Not available

(b) Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been 

achieved since the previous year? 

Not available

No. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9

1. The company has not understood the Principles 

2. The company is not at a stage where it finds itself in a position to 

formulate and implement the policies on specified principles 

3. The company does not have financial or manpower resources 

available for the task 

4. It is planned to be done within next 6 months 

5. It is planned to be done within the next 1 year 

6. Any other reason (please specify) 



30 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

3. Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing 

(including transportation)? 

Yes. The Company has set procedures to select suppliers, contractors 

and service providers based on their competence and capability to 

undertake tasks and in compliance with the ABB’s Supplier Code of 

Conduct which includes health & safety, environment, ethics & integrity, 

human rights, working conditions among others. As a guiding principle 

the Company prefers to do business with compliant and sustainable 

suppliers. The Company has set procedures in place for sustainable 

souring including transportation. At the time of qualification to become 

an ABB supplier, the vendor is assessed across sustainability matrix. 

The Company has implemented a Supplier Sustainability Development 

Program (SSDP) as part of a comprehensive sustainable sourcing 

initiative. The goal of the SSDP is to ensure compliance with the 

Supplier Code of Conduct, to support continual improvement of the 

sustainability performance of suppliers and to provide customers with 

a highly competitive and sustainable supply chain. Under the program, 

the Company trained both suppliers and Company employees, and 

carried out independent third party supplier audits to identify areas 

of improvement in the areas of General management, Working hours, 

Remuneration, Social benefits, Health and Safety, Environmental 

protection, Human Rights aspects etc.

The ABB Group directive specifically for Sourcing for Transport & 

Logistics service is a guidance document that the Company follows. 

Among many other stringent criteria that the supplier is evaluated upon, 

key sustainability aspects that are reviewed for selection include: HSE 

policy and training programmes of the vendor, compliance to internal 

and external certification of the operations staff of the vendor for HSE 

training to ensure their HSE competencies prior to commencement 

of work, follow of PPE requirement, certification of all safety tools, 

equipment by third party and to check if the vendor is in compliance with 

all the governmental environmental regulations, energy conservation 

and Carbon footprint initiatives . There are also stringent qualifications 

across ABB’s Human Rights policy, training, and adherence to ABB’s 

RoHS, Reach Compliance and to ABB List of Prohibited and Restricted 

Substances for supplier qualification.

(a) If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? 

Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 

All of the Company’s vendors mandatorily go through a stringent 

evaluation and qualification criteria before they are registered within 

the Company. The qualification procedures include all aspects of 

sustainability performance.

4. Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services 

from local & small producers, including communities surrounding 

their place of work? 

Yes. Businesses do have their list of local suppliers however the Company 

is moving towards a centralized procurement team and all of its vendors 

and suppliers need to meet with the set of qualification requirements 

of the Company

(a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and 

capability of local and small vendors? 

The Company has analyzed the identified the most common issues 

of our suppliers as "no health & safety risk assessment" and "no 

environmental risk assessment" during sustainability assessments. To 

address these issues systematically, three one-day workshops on the 

topic were organized at manufacturing locations of the Company in 

Bengaluru, Nashik, and Vadodara for our suppliers. Internal Company’s 

documents & training materials on best practices has been made 

available to suppliers to expedite their learnings.

5. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? 

If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste 

(separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in 

about 50 words or so. 

Yes.

>10%. The Company has stringent waste management practices for 

internally generated wastes; covered in the Company’s HSE policy.

Principle 3 

1. Please indicate the Total number of employees. Permanent employees: 5603

2. Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on  

temporary/contractual/casual basis. 

Apprentice / Interns / Trainees : 995

Contract employees: 265

3. Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees. 340

4. Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with disabilities 21

5. Do you have an employee association that is recognized by 

management. 

Yes

6. What percentage of your permanent employees is members  

of this recognized employee association? 

18.42%

7. Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to child labour, 

forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last 

financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year. 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 31

No. Category No of complaints filed during the financial 

year

No of complaints filed pending on end of the 

financial year

1. Child labour/forced labour/involuntary labor Nil Nil

2. Sexual harassment Nil Nil

3. Discriminatory employment Nil Nil

8. What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given 

safety & skill up-gradation training in the last year? 

Yes. On a periodical basis.

All of the Company’s employees underwent safety related training and 

skill upgradation.

An average HSE training hours was 3.81 hours / employee

(a) Permanent Employees 

(b) Permanent Women Employees 

(c) Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees This category of employees are subjected to skill based training 

depending on the work and job roles. Training matrix is designed based 

on their job risk profiles. 

As and when required, refresher trainings are provided to upgrade skills 

based on any changes in the work/ job profiles of employees.

(d) Employees with Disabilities Training on various aspects are given to employees including persons 

with disabilities

Principle 4

1. Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? 

Yes/No 

Yes

2. Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, 

vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders. 

No

3. Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with 

the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. If so, 

provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 

No

Principle 5 

1. Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the 

company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/

Contractors/NGOs/Others? 

No. It is applicable to all – Group, Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors, 

NGOs and Others.

2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past 

financial year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the 

management? 

Nil

Principle 6 

1. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or 

extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/

others. 

No. It is applicable to all – Group, Joint Ventures, Suppliers, Contractors, 

NGOs and Others.

2. Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address global 

environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc? 

Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc. 

Yes.

http://new.abb.com/betterworld/how-abb-technology-mitigates-

climate-change

http://new.abb.com/docs/default-source/better-world/abb-

statement-on-climate-change.pdf?sfvrsn=6

3. Does the company identify and assess potential environmental 

risks? Y/N 

Yes

4. Does the company have any project related to Clean Development 

Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 

Also, if Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed? 

No

5. Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean 

technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, 

please give hyperlink for web page etc. 

Yes.

http://new.abb.com/energy-efficiency

6. Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the 

permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being 

reported? 

Yes

7. Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB 

which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of 

financial year. 

Nil

Principle 7 

1. Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? 

If Yes, Name only those major ones that your business deals with: 

Yes

(a) Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)

(b) Manufacturers' Association (IEEMA)

(c) Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry

(d) Swiss Chamber of Commerce 

(e) Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce



32 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the 

advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes 

specify the broad areas (drop box: Governance and Administration, 

Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, 

Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others) 

No

Principle 8 

1. Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/projects 

in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof. 

Yes. The Company has a CSR policy and activities are on the 5 key focal 

areas for its social development projects/activities.

2. Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house team/

own foundation/external NGO/government structures/any other 

organization? 

The CSR programs of the Company are through its registered Trust 

and activities include both direct spending through in house team 

as well as through partnerships with verified external NGO partners/ 

implementing agencies.

3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? Not Yet

4. What is your company’s direct contribution to community 

development projects- Amount in INR and the details of the projects 

undertaken. 

During the year, the total spent on CSR activities by the Company was  

` 740 Lakhs against a budget of ̀  749 Lakhs as stipulated under Schedule 

VII of the Companies Act, 2013. 

Details are in annexure attached in the CSR report

5. Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development 

initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain 

in 50 words, or so. 

CSR activities were pursued in line with the Company’s policy and 

framework. The first step in the process is to identify communities 

that require our intervention through a stakeholder engagement. The 

Company has continual interactions with the relevant stakeholders so 

that its interventions are sustainable and is accepted and adopted by 

the key stakeholders.

Principle 9 

1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are 

pending as on the end of financial year. 

3.02% 

2. Does the company display product information on the product label, 

over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A. /

Remarks (additional information) 

No

3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company 

regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or 

anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending as 

on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 

words or so. 

No

4. Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer 

satisfaction trends? 

Yes. Feedback received from customers is used to improve the Company’s 

processes, products and services. The Company seeks formal feedback 

from customers through the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey to help 

better understand the customers’ experience with the Company and to 

identify areas for improvement. Since 2010, the Company has adopted 

the Net Promoter Score (NPS) Survey on an annual basis. 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 33

—
Notice to the Members

NOTICE is hereby given that the SIXTY SEVENTH ANNUAL 

GENERAL MEETING of the Members of ABB India Limited 

will be held at “Grand Ball Room”, Second Floor, Sheraton 

Bangalore Hotel at Brigade Gateway, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar 

Road, Malleshwaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru – 560 055, on 

Tuesday, May 9, 2017 at 11.00 A.M. (IST) to transact the 

following businesses:

Ordinary Business

Item No. 1 – Adoption of Financial Statements and 

Reports of the Board of Directors and the Auditors 

thereon

To receive, consider and adopt the financial statements, 

namely, (i) the Audited Balance Sheet as at December 31, 

2016, (ii) the Audited Profit & Loss Account for the year 

ended on that date, (iii) the Cash Flow Statement for the 

financial year ended on that date, (iv) statement of 

changes in Equity, if any, (v) an Explanatory Note annexed 

to, or forming part of, the documents referred to in (i) to 

(iv) above and the Reports of Board of Directors and the 

Auditors thereon.

Item No. 2 – Declaration of Dividend

To declare a dividend of ` 4/- per Equity Share of ` 2/- each 

for the Financial Year 2016.

Item No. 3 – Appointment of a Director

To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Tarak Mehta  

(DIN: 06995639), who retires by rotation at this Annual 

General Meeting and being eligible offers himself, for  

re-appointment.

Item No. 4 – To appoint Statutory Auditors and to 

authorize the Board of Directors to determine their 

remuneration

To consider and, if thought fit, to give your assent or 

dissent to the following Ordinary Resolution:

“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Section 139, 142 and other 

applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 

read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 

Messrs B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm 

Registration No.101248W/W-100022) be and are hereby 

appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company in 

place of retiring Statutory Auditors, Messrs S R BATLIBOI 

& ASSOCIATES LLP (Firm Registration No.101049W/

E300004), to hold office for a term of 5 (five) years from 

the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting until the 

conclusion of the 72nd Annual General Meeting subject to 

ratification of their appointment by the Members at every 

Annual General Meeting and to authorize the Board of 

Directors to determine their remuneration.”

Special Business

Item No. 5 – Commission to the Non-Executive Directors 

of the Company

To consider and if thought fit, to give your assent or 

dissent to the following Special Resolution:

“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Article 154A of the existing 

Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions 

of Section 197 and other applicable provisions, if any, of 

the Companies Act, 2013, consent of the Company be and 

is hereby accorded for payment of remuneration by way of 

commission to the Non-Executive Directors of the 

Company (i.e., excluding the Managing Director of the 

Company and the Whole-time Director, if any), an amount 

not exceeding in the aggregate 1% per annum of the net 

profits of the Company computed in the manner laid down 

in Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013, for a period of 

five financial years from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 

2021, in such manner and proportion as may be determined 

by the Board from time to time.”

Item No. 6 – Ratification of remuneration to the Cost 

Auditor of the Company for Financial Year 2017

To consider and if thought fit, to give your assent or 

dissent to the following Ordinary Resolution:

“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 

148 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 

Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and 

Auditors) Rules, 2014, the payment of remuneration of  

` 33,00,000/- (Rupees Thirty Three Lakh only) per annum 

plus applicable service tax and out of pocket expenses 

actually incurred during the course of audit to Ashwin 

Solanki & Associates, Cost Accountant (Registration  

No.100392) appointed as Cost Auditor, by the Board of 

Directors of the Company to conduct the audit of the cost 

records of the Company for the financial year ending 

December 31, 2017, be and is hereby confirmed, approved 

and ratified.

RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the 

Company (including its Committee thereof), be and is 

hereby authorized to do all acts and take all such steps as 



34 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

may be necessary, proper or expedient to give effect to 

this resolution.”

Item No. 7 – Alteration of the Objects Clause of the 

Memorandum of Association of the Company

To consider and, if thought fit, to give your assent or 

dissent to the following Special Resolution:

“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Section 13 and all other 

applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 

as amended from time to time, the following new sub-

clause be inserted as sub-clause 2(a) in Clause III of the 

Company’s Memorandum of Association (“MoA”) and the 

existing sub-clauses 2(a) and 2(b) in the said Clause III of 

the MoA be renumbered as sub-clauses 2(b) and 2(c) 

thereafter.

New Sub Clause 2(a) of Clause III of MoA

To carry on the business of inventor, developer, 

manufacturer, buyer, seller, trader, service provider, 

repairer, dealer, exchanger, exporter, importer, consultant, 

e-commerce activities or otherwise deal in all kinds of low, 

medium, high voltage products including electric vehicle 

charging infrastructure, high voltage DC (HVDC) 

equipment and systems, Microgrids, solar inverters, 

modular substations, distribution automation, power 

protection, wiring accessories, switchgear, enclosures, 

cabling, sensing and control, motors, generators, drives, 

mechanical power transmission, industrial robots, wind 

and traction converters, design to optimize the 

productivity of industrial processes, solutions include 

turnkey engineering, control systems, measurement 

products, life cycle services, outsourced maintenance and 

industry specific products like electric propulsion for 

ships, mine hoists, turbochargers and pulp testing 

equipment etc; all power and automation products, 

systems, batteries, transformers service and software 

solutions across the generation, transmission and 

distribution, grid integration, transmission, distribution 

and automation solutions, renewable energy, digitalization 

solutions for power, industry and infrastructure segments 

and to carry out all activities in relation to business of 

power and automation generally whether or not expressly 

provided under this Memorandum.

RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the 

Company and Key Managerial Personnel be and are hereby 

authorized to do or cause to be done all such acts, deeds, 

matters and things and execute and sign all such 

documents and papers, as may be necessary in this regard, 

including without limitation to sign and submit the various 

Forms / E-Forms and other papers/documents to be filed 

with the Registrar of Companies, Ministry of Corporate 

Affairs, Government of India or any other Competent 

Authority.”

Item No. 8 – To consider adoption of new set of Articles 

of Association of the Company

To consider and, if thought fit, to give assent or dissent to 

the following Special Resolution:

“RESOLVED THAT the new set of Articles of Association 

placed before the meeting and initialed by the Chairman 

for the purpose of identification be and the same is 

adopted in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the 

present set of Articles of Association of the Company.

RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the 

Company and Key Managerial Personnel be and are hereby 

authorized to do or cause to be done all such acts, deeds, 

matters and things and execute and sign all such 

documents and papers, as may be necessary in this regard, 

including but not limited to sign and submit the various 

Forms / E-Forms and other papers/documents to be filed 

with the Registrar of Companies, Ministry of Corporate 

Affairs, Government of India or any other Competent 

Authority.”

 By Order of the Board

 For ABB India Limited

 B Gururaj 

 Company Secretary 

 FCS-2631

Place: Mumbai

Date: March 23, 2017

Registered Office:

21st Floor, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway,  

No.26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram West, 

Bengaluru – 560 055

CIN: L32202KA1949PLC032923

Notes:

1. A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE AT THE 

MEETING IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT ONE OR MORE 

PROXIES TO ATTEND AND VOTE INSTEAD OF HIMSELF 

/ HERSELF AND A PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER OF 

THE COMPANY. PROXIES IN ORDER TO BE EFFECTIVE 

MUST BE DULY FILLED, STAMPED, SIGNED AND 

SHOULD BE DEPOSITED AT THE COMPANY’S 

REGISTERED OFFICE NOT LATER THAN FORTY–EIGHT 

HOURS BEFORE THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE 

MEETING. PROXIES SUBMITTED ON BEHALF OF 

LIMITED COMPANIES, SOCIETIES, PARTNERSHIP 

FIRMS, ETC., MUST BE SUPPORTED BY APPROPRIATE 

RESOLUTION / AUTHORITY AS APPLICABLE, ISSUED 

ON BEHALF OF THE APPOINTING ORGANISATION. A 

PERSON CAN ACT AS PROXY ON BEHALF OF MEMBERS 

NOT EXCEEDING FIFTY (50) AND HOLDING IN THE 

AGGREGATE NOT MORE THAN 10% OF THE TOTAL 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 35

SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY CARRYING VOTING 

RIGHTS. IN CASE A PROXY IS PROPOSED TO BE 

APPOINTED BY A MEMBER HOLDING MORE THAN 10% 

OF THE TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY 

CARRYING VOTING RIGHTS, THEN SUCH PROXY 

SHALL NOT ACT AS A PROXY FOR ANY OTHER PERSON 

OR MEMBER.

 IN CASE OF JOINT HOLDERS ATTENDING THE 

MEETING, ONLY SUCH JOINT HOLDER WHO IS HIGHER 

IN THE ORDER OF NAMES WILL BE ENTITLED TO 

VOTE.

2. The Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the 

Companies Act, 2013, setting out the material facts in 

respect of special businesses under Item Nos. 5 to 8 

is annexed hereto.

 

3. Members / Proxies attending the Meeting are 

requested to complete the enclosed attendance slip 

and deliver the same at the entrance of the meeting 

hall.

4. The Register of Members and the Share Transfer 

Books of the Company will remain closed from 

Wednesday, May 3, 2017 to Tuesday, May 9, 2017 (both 

days inclusive) for the purpose of payment of 

dividend.

5. The dividend, as recommended by the Board of 

Directors of the Company, if declared at the Annual 

General Meeting, will be paid on and from Thursday, 

May 11, 2017, to those Members whose names stand 

registered on the Company’s Register of Members:

a) as Beneficial Owners as at the end of business 

hours on Tuesday, May 2, 2017 as per the list to be 

furnished by National Securities Depository 

Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services 

(India) Limited (CDSL) in respect of shares held in 

dematerialized form.

b) as Members in the Register of Members of the 

Company after giving effect to valid share 

transfers lodged with the Company, on or before 

Tuesday, May 2, 2017.

6. Members are requested to note that dividends not 

encashed or remaining unclaimed for a period of 7 

(seven) years from the date of transfer to the 

Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account, shall be 

transferred, under Section 124 of the Companies Act, 

2013, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 

(“IEPF”), established under corresponding to Section 

125 of the Companies Act, 2013. Further, pursuant to 

the provisions of Section 124 of the Act and IEPF 

Rules, all shares on which dividend has not been paid 

or claimed for seven consecutive years or more shall 

be transferred to IEPF Authority as notified by the 

Ministry of Corporate Affairs.

 The Members / claimants whose shares, unclaimed 

dividend, sale proceeds of fractional shares etc. have 

been transferred to IEPF may claim the shares or 

apply for refund by making an application to IEPF 

Authority in Form IEPF 5 (available on www.iepf.gov.

in) along with requisite fee as decided by it from time 

to time. The Member / claimant can file only one 

consolidated claim in a financial year as per the IEPF 

Rules.

 It is in the Members interest to claim any un-encashed 

dividends and for future, opt for Electronic Clearing 

Service, so that dividends paid by the Company are 

credited to the investor’s account on time.

7. Members who have not yet encashed the dividend 

warrant(s) from the financial year ended December 

31, 2009 onwards are requested to forward their 

claims to the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer 

Agents. It may be noted that once the unclaimed 

dividend is transferred to IEPF as above, no claim shall 

rest with the Company in respect of such amount. It 

may also be noted that the unclaimed dividend 

amounts which were lying with the Company upto the 

year ended on December 31, 2008, have been 

transferred to IEPF. The details of the unclaimed 

dividends are available on the Company’s website at 

www.abb.co.in and Ministry of Corporate Affairs at 

www.mca.gov.in. Members are requested to contact 

Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Unit: ABB India 

Limited, Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial 

District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Serilingampally 

Mandal, Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana, the 

Registrar and Share Transfer Agents of the Company 

to claim the unclaimed / unpaid dividends.

8. Members are requested to intimate, indicating their 

folio number, the changes, if any, in their registered 

address, either to the Company’s Registrar and Share 

Transfer Agents at the address mentioned above or to 

their respective Depository Participant (“DP”) in case 

the shares are held in dematerialized form.

9. The present Statutory Auditors, Messrs S R BATLIBOI 

& ASSOCIATES LLP (Firm Registration No.101049W/

E300004) will hold office upto the ensuing Annual 

General Meeting and are not eligible for  

re-appointment as Statutory Auditors of the Company 

as per Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, the Board  

of Directors have recommended the appointment of 

Messrs B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm 

Registration No.101248W/W-100022), as Statutory 

Auditors, in place of Messrs S R BATLIBOI & 

ASSOCIATES LLP, the retiring Auditors, for a period of 

5 years from the conclusion of this Annual General 

Meeting until the conclusion of the 72nd Annual 

General Meeting, subject to ratification of their 

appointment by the Members at every Annual General 

Meeting.



36 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

10. Members are requested to note that, in order to avoid 

any loss/ interception in postal transit and also to get 

prompt credit of dividend through National Electronic 

Clearing Service (NECS) / Electronic Clearing Service 

(ECS) they should submit their NECS / ECS details to 

the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents. 

The requisite NECS /ECS application form can be 

obtained from the Company’s Registrar and Share 

Transfer Agents. Alternatively, Members may provide 

details of their bank account quoting their folio 

numbers, to the Company’s Registrar and Share 

Transfer Agents to enable them to print such details 

on the dividend warrants.

11. As required by Regulation 36 of Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the 

Listing Regulations) and Secretarial Standard-2 on 

General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company 

Secretaries of India, the relevant details of Director 

retiring by rotation and seeking appointment at the 

ensuing Annual General Meeting are given in the 

annexure to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.

12. Shareholders, intending to require information about 

the Financial Accounts to be approved at the Meeting, 

are requested to inform the Company at least a week 

in advance of their intention to do so, so that the 

papers relating thereto may be made available, if the 

Chairman permits such information to be furnished.

13. Members are requested to attend the meeting along 

with the copy of the Annual Report, already sent to 

them.

14. The Company has designated an exclusive e-mail id 

viz., investor.helpdesk@in.abb.com to enable 

investors to register their complaints / queries, if any.

15. The Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) vide its 

earlier circulars have made the Permanent Account 

Number (PAN) as the sole identification number for all 

participants transacting in the securities market, 

irrespective of the amount of the transaction. 

Members are requested to submit the PAN details to 

their respective DP in case of holdings in 

dematerialized form or the Company’s Registrar and 

Share Transfer Agents in case of holdings in physical 

form, mentioning the correct folio number.

16. As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act and Rule 

19(1) of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) 

Rules, 2014, Members holding shares in physical form 

may file nomination in the prescribed Form SH-13 

with the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer 

Agents. In respect of shares held in demat form, the 

nomination form may be filed with the respective DP.

17. Members holding shares in physical form are 

requested to consider converting their holdings in the 

dematerialized form. Members who are desirous to 

convert their physical holdings into dematerialized 

form shall contact the Company’s Registrar and Share 

Transfer Agents at the address mentioned above.

18. The Annual Report of the Company circulated to the 

Members of the Company will be made available on 

the Company’s website at www.abb.co.in and also on 

the website of the Stock Exchanges where the shares 

of the Company have been listed viz., BSE Limited - 

www.bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of 

India Limited - www.nseindia.com

19. All documents referred in the accompanying Notice 

and Statement setting out material facts are open for 

inspection at the Registered Office of the Company 

on all working days between 10.00 a.m. and 12.00 p.m. 

upto Tuesday, May 9, 2017 being the date of the Annual 

General Meeting.

20. The Annual Report of the Company for the year ended 

December 31, 2016 along with Notice, process and 

manner of remote e-voting, Attendance Slip and 

Proxy form are being sent by e-mail to those Members 

who have registered their e-mail address with the 

Company or with their respective DP or Registrar and 

Share Transfer Agents of the Company. Members who 

are desirous to have a physical copy of the Annual 

Report should send a request to the Company’s e-mail 

id viz., investor.helpdesk@in.abb.com clearly 

mentioning their Folio number / DP and Client ID.

21. Updation of Members’ details: The format of the 

Register of Members prescribed by the Ministry of 

Corporate Affairs under the Companies Act, 2013 

requires the Company/Registrars and Share Transfer 

Agents to record additional details of Members, 

including their PAN details, email address, bank 

details for payment of dividend, etc. Members holding 

shares in physical form are requested to furnish the 

above details to the Company or its Registrars and 

Share Transfer Agents. Members holding shares in 

electronic form are requested to furnish the details to 

their respective DP.

22. Information and other instructions relating to remote 

e-voting and voting by Ballot Form are as under:

(1) In case of Remote E-voting: 

 In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of 

the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 20 of the Companies 

(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 as 

amended from time to time and the provisions of 

Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations, the Members 

are provided with the facility to cast their vote 

electronically, through the remote e-voting services 

provided by Karvy Computershare Private Limited 

(KCPL) on all resolutions set forth in this Notice.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 37

A. In case a Member receives an email from Karvy [for 

Members whose email IDs are registered with the 

Company / DP(s)]:

i. Launch internet browser by typing the URL: 

https://evoting.karvy.com.

ii. Enter the login credentials (i.e. user ID and 

password). In case of physical folio, user ID will be 

EVEN number 2962 followed by folio number. In 

case of Demat account, user ID will be your DP ID 

and Client ID. However, if you are already 

registered with Karvy for remote e-voting, you 

can use your existing user ID and password for 

casting your vote.

iii. After entering these details appropriately, click 

on “LOGIN”.

iv. You will now reach password change menu 

wherein you are required to mandatorily change 

your password. The new password shall comprise 

of minimum 8 characters with at least one upper 

case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric 

value (0-9) and a special character (@,#,$, etc.,). 

The system will prompt you to change your 

password and update your contact details like 

mobile number, email ID etc. on first login. You 

may also enter a secret question and answer of 

your choice to retrieve your password in case you 

forget it. It is strongly recommended that you do 

not share your password with any other person 

and that you take utmost care to keep your 

password confidential.

v. You need to login again with the new credentials.

vi. On successful login, the system will prompt you 

to select the “EVENT” i.e., ABB India Limited.

vii. On the voting page, enter the number of shares 

(which represents the number of votes) as on the 

Cut-off Date under “FOR / AGAINST” or 

alternatively, you may partially enter any number 

in “FOR” and partially “AGAINST” but the total 

number in “FOR / AGAINST” taken together not 

exceeding your total shareholding as mentioned 

hereinabove. You may also choose the option 

ABSTAIN. If the shareholder does not indicate 

either “FOR” or “AGAINST” it will be treated as 

“ABSTAIN” and the shares held will not be counted 

under either head.

viii. Shareholders holding multiple folios / demat 

accounts shall choose the voting process 

separately for each folio / demat accounts.

ix. Voting has to be done for each item of the notice 

separately. In case you do not desire to cast your 

vote on any specific item it will be treated as 

abstained.

x. You may then cast your vote by selecting an 

appropriate option and click on “Submit”.

xi. A confirmation box will be displayed. Click “OK” 

to confirm else “CANCEL” to modify. Once you 

have voted on the resolution, you will not be 

allowed to modify your vote. During the voting 

period, Members can login any number of times 

till they have voted on the Resolution(s).

xii. Corporate / Institutional Members (i.e. other 

than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.,) are also required 

to send scanned certified true copy (PDF Format) 

of the Board Resolution / Authority Letter etc., 

together with attested specimen signature(s) of 

the duly authorised representative(s), to the 

Scrutinizer at email cs.skannan@gmail.com with 

a copy marked to evoting@karvy.com. The 

scanned image of the above mentioned 

documents should be in the naming format “ABB 

India Limited 67th Annual General Meeting.”

B. In case of Members receiving physical copy of 

Notice [for Members whose email IDs are not 

registered with the Company / DP(s)]:

i. Remote E-Voting Event Number 2962 (EVEN), 

user ID and password is provided in the Ballot 

Form.

ii. Please follow all steps from Sl. No. (i) to (xii) 

above to cast your vote by electronic means.

(2) In case of voting by using Ballot Forms:

i In terms of Rule 20 of the Companies 

(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 as 

amended from time to time and Listing 

Regulations, the Company, in order to enable its 

Members, who do not have access to remote 

e-voting facility, to send their assent or dissent in 

writing in respect of the resolutions as set out in 

this Notice, is enclosing a Ballot Form along with 

Annual Report.

ii A Member desiring to exercise voting by using 

Ballot Form shall complete the enclosed Ballot 

Form with assent (FOR) or dissent (AGAINST) and 

send it to the Scrutinizer, Mr. S. Kannan, Practicing 

Company Secretary, duly appointed by the Board 

of Directors of the Company, in the enclosed 

postage prepaid self-addressed envelope. Ballot 

Forms deposited in person or sent by post or 

courier at the expense of the Member will also be 

accepted at the Registered Office of the 

Company.



38 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

iii Please convey your assent in Column “FOR” and 

dissent in the column “AGAINST” by placing a tick 

( ) mark in the appropriate column in the Ballot 

Form only. The assent / dissent received in any 

other form / manner will not be considered.

iv Duly completed and signed Ballot Forms shall 

reach the Scrutinizer on or before Friday, May 5, 

2017 (5.00 p.m. IST). The Ballot Forms received 

after the said date / time shall be strictly treated 

as if the reply from the Member has not been 

received.

v Unsigned / incomplete Ballot Forms will be 

rejected. Scrutinizer’s decision on validity of the 

Ballot Form shall be final.

vi A Member may request duplicate Ballot Form, if 

so required, by writing to the Company at its 

Registered Office or by sending an email to 

investor.helpdesk@in.abb.com by mentioning 

their Folio No. / DP ID and Client ID. However, the 

duly filled in duplicate Ballot Form should reach 

the scrutinizer not later than Friday, May 5, 2017 

(5.00 p.m. IST).

vii A Member can opt for only single mode of voting 

i.e. either through remote e-voting or by Ballot 

Form. If a Member casts vote by both modes then 

voting done through remote e-voting shall prevail 

and vote by Ballot shall be treated as invalid. 

Members who have cast their vote by remote 

e-voting prior to the meeting may also attend the 

general meeting, however those Members are 

not entitled to cast their vote again in the general 

meeting.

(3) Voting at AGM: 

 The Members who have not cast their vote either 

electronically or through Ballot Form, can exercise 

their voting rights at the AGM. The Company will make 

necessary arrangements in this regard at the AGM 

Venue.

(4) Other Instructions:

i  In case of any queries, you may refer Help & FAQ 

section of https://evoting.karvy.com (Karvy Website) 

or call KCPL on 040-67162222 and Toll Free No.1800 

3454 001.

ii. You can also update your mobile number and e-mail id 

in the user profile details of the folio which may be 

used for sending future communication(s).

iii. The remote e-voting period commences on Friday, 

May 5, 2017 (9.00 a.m. IST) and ends on Monday, May 

8, 2017 (5.00 p.m. IST). During this period shareholders 

of the Company, holding shares either in physical 

form or in dematerialized form, as on the cut-off date 

i.e., Tuesday, May 2, 2017, may cast their vote 

electronically in the manner and process set out 

hereinabove. The remote e-voting module shall be 

disabled for voting thereafter. Once the vote on a 

resolution is cast by the Member, the Member shall 

not be allowed to change it subsequently.

iv. Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and 

become Member of the Company after dispatch of 

the notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date, 

i.e. Tuesday, May 2, 2017, may obtain the login ID and 

password by sending a request at evoting@karvy.

com.

v. However, if you are already registered with KCPL for 

remote e-voting then you can use your existing user 

ID and password for casting your vote. If you forgot 

your password, you can reset your password by using 

“Forgot User Details / Password” option available on 

https://evoting.karvy.com or call KCPL on  

1800 3454 001 / 040-67162222.

vi. The voting rights of shareholders shall be in 

proportion to their shares of the paid up equity share 

capital of the Company as on the cut-off date Tuesday, 

May 2, 2017.

vii. The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. S. Kannan 

(Membership No. F6261 and PCS No. 13016), Practicing 

Company Secretary and in his absence Mr. B L Vinay, 

Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No.

A26638 and PCS No.10760) as the Scrutinizer to 

scrutinize the voting process in a fair and transparent 

manner.

viii. The scrutinizer shall immediately after the conclusion 

of voting at the general meeting, first count the votes 

cast at the meeting, thereafter unblock the votes cast 

through remote e-voting in the presence of at least 

two witnesses who are not in the employment of the 

Company and within a period not exceeding 48 hours 

from the conclusion of the meeting submit a 

consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes 

cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or 

person authorized by the Chairman in writing for 

counter signature.

ix. The Results shall be declared either by the Chairman 

or the person authorized by the Chairman in writing 

and the resolutions will be deemed to have been 

passed on the AGM date subject to receipt of the 

requisite number of votes in favour thereof.

x. Promptly after declaration of results, the same shall 

be placed along with the Scrutinizer’s Report on the 

Company’s website at www.abb.co.in and on the 

KARVY’s website at https://evoting.karvy.com and 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 39

communicated to BSE Limited and National Stock 

Exchange of India Limited, where the shares of the 

Company are listed for placing the same in their 

website.

Statement setting out Material Facts under Section 102 

of the Companies Act, 2013 

Item No. 5

At the 62nd Annual General Meeting of the Members of the 

Company held on May 10, 2012, the Company had obtained 

the approval of the Members by a Special Resolution for 

payment of commission to the Non-executive Directors, 

upto an amount not exceeding in the aggregate 1% per 

annum of the net profits of the Company, the validity of 

which has expired on December 31, 2016. 

Keeping in view the increased responsibilities of the Non-

executive Directors entrusted by the Companies Act, 2013 

and the Listing Regulations, it is considered appropriate 

that the Non-executive Directors of the Company are 

compensated reasonably, commensurate with their 

increased responsibilities and the contributions made by 

them. 

It is therefore proposed that Non-executive Directors be 

paid remuneration by way of commission of an amount, 

not exceeding in the aggregate 1% per annum of the net 

profits of the Company, computed in accordance with 

Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013, in accordance 

with the recommendations of Board of Directors of the 

Company, for a period of five years commencing from 

January 1, 2017. Such payment will be in addition to the 

sitting fees for attending Board/Committee meetings.

Since the Company has a Managing Director the 

commission payable to Non Executive Directors, pursuant 

to Section 197(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 cannot 

exceed in the aggregate 1% of the net profits of the 

Company.

Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Article 

154A of the existing Articles of Association of the 

Company, requires the approval of the Members of the 

Company in General Meeting by a Special Resolution for 

the payment of remuneration by way of commission to 

Non-executive Directors of the Company. Hence, the 

Special Resolution at Item 5 of the Notice.

Details of commission and sitting fees paid to Non-

Executive Directors during the Financial Year 2016 is 

provided in the Corporate Governance Report which is 

annexed to the Directors’ Report.

The Special Resolution at Item 5 is recommended for 

approval by the Members. 

Each of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company,  who 

are also the Independent Directors namely, Mr. Nasser 

Munjee, Mr. Darius E. Udwadia and Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad 

who is eligible to receive remuneration by way of 

commission as aforesaid is interested in the Special 

Resolution to the extent of the commission payable to 

them individually.

None of the other Directors and / or Key Managerial 

Personnel of the Company and / or their respective 

relatives, is concerned or interested, financially or 

otherwise, in the Special Resolution set out at Item 5 of 

the Notice.

Item No. 6

The Board of Directors of the Company, on the 

recommendation of the Audit Committee, has approved 

the appointment of Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost 

Accountant (Registration No: 100392) as Cost Auditor to 

conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company for 

the financial year ending December 31, 2017.

In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act 

read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 

the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor requires to 

be ratified by the Members of the Company. Accordingly, 

ratification of the Members is sought as referred to in the 

Resolution at Item 6 of the Notice of the payment of the 

remuneration amounting to ` 33,00,000/- for Cost Audit 

plus applicable service tax and out of pocket expenses 

payable to the Cost Auditor for the financial year ending 

December 31, 2017.

None of the Directors and/or Key Managerial Personnel of 

the Company and / or their respective relatives is 

concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the 

Special Resolution set out at Item 6 of the Notice. 

Item No. 7

The existing Memorandum of Association (“MoA”) of the 

Company was originally adopted when the Company was 

incorporated under the Companies Act, 1913 and 

amendments were carried out as and when required. To 

cover various business activates undertaken by the 

Company with updated nomenclatures under one Object 

Clause to avoid finding references in various other Sub 

Clauses of existing MoA, it is proposed to alter the Objects 

Clause of the MoA in the manner and to the extent set out 

in the Special Resolution at Item 7 of the Notice. The 

proposed new Sub Clause also covers areas of businesses 

which the Company may undertake in future.

As per Section 13 the Companies Act 2013, read with 

Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014, any alterations 

proposed to be made in the Memorandum of Association 

of the Company requires the approval of the Members by 

a Special Resolution. 



40 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

The Directors recommend the Special Resolution at  

Item 7 for approval by the Members. 

None of the Directors and/or Key Managerial Personnel of 

the Company and / or their respective relatives is 

concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the 

Special Resolution set out at Item 7 of the Notice. 

Item No. 8 

Following the enactment of the Companies Act, 2013 

which repealed the Companies Act, 1956 it is considered 

necessary to alter the Articles of Association of the 

Company to bring them fully in conformity with the 

applicable / corresponding provisions of the Companies 

Act, 2013.

Rather than making piecemeal alterations in various 

provisions contained in the existing Articles of Association, 

it is proposed, in view of the foregoing, to adopt an 

altogether new set of Articles of Association in 

substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing 

Articles of Association.

Pursuant to Section 14 of the Companies Act, 2013 the 

proposed new set of Articles of Association will require to 

be approved by the Members in General Meeting by a 

Special Resolution. Hence, the Special Resolution at Item 

8 of the Notice.

The following are the material / significant alterations 

proposed to be made in the existing Articles of Association, 

consequent upon the enactment of the Companies Act, 

2013 and the applicable / corresponding provisions 

thereof:

The proposed new Articles of Association have been 

uploaded on the Company’s website at www.abb.co.in for 

perusal by the Members.

The Directors recommend the Special Resolution at Item 

8 of the Notice for approval by the Members.

None of the Directors and/ or Key Personnel of the 

Company and / or their relatives is concerned or interested, 

financially or otherwise, in the Special Resolution set out 

at Item 8 of the Notice.

 By Order of the Board

 For ABB India Limited

 B Gururaj

 Company Secretary

 FCS-2631

Place: Mumbai

Date: March 23, 2017

Registered Office:

21st Floor, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway, 

No.26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram West, 

Bengaluru – 560 055

CIN: L32202KA1949PLC032923

Sl. No. Article reference as 

per new draft Articles

Summary of change

1. 18 The Article has been inserted to 

provide for buy back of securities of 

the Company.

2. 117 (c) The Article has been inserted to provide 

for voting through electronic means. 

3. 137 Incorporation of references relating to 

independent directors

4. 141(e) The Article has been inserted to allow 

the same individual to be appointed as 

Chairman as well as Managing Director 

and Chief Executive Officer of the 

Company. 

5. 163 and 164 Amendments made to provide for 

participation of directors at meetings 

of the Board/Committee either 

through video conferencing or audio 

visual means or teleconferencing, as 

the case may be. 

6. 178 Provision made to appoint 

key managerial personnel and 

incorporation of references relating to 

key managerial personnel

7. 183 The Article has been amended to allow 

maintenance of statutory registers 

physically as well as in electronic mode. 

8. 200 The Article has been amended to 

provide for maintenance of books of 

account in electronic mode as well. 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 41

—
Annexure to AGM Notice

DETAILS OF DIRECTOR SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE FORTHCOMING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING [PURSUANT TO 

REGULATION 36 OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015]

• Details of Membership / Chairmanship of Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee are provided. 

• Directorships in foreign companies, membership in governing councils, chambers and other bodies, Partnership in 

firms etc., are not provided.

Aforesaid Director is not related to any other Director.

Name of the Director Tarak Mehta

Director Identification Number 06995639

Date of Birth / Age 16.10.1966 / 50 years

Date of appointment as a Director 28.10.2014

Qualification BS Mechanical Engineering

MBA Finance & Marketing

Brief profile and nature of their expertise in specific functional areas Mr Tarak Mehta is President, Electrification Products division of ABB Ltd., 

Switzerland. 

Prior to that, he had acted as Executive Vice President, Head of Low Voltage 

Products division of ABB Ltd., Switzerland, since October 1, 2010 and as Head 

of Business Unit Transformers at ABB Management Services Ltd since 2007.

Mr. Mehta joined ABB Power T&D Company Inc in 1998 and has held various 

management positions in the Power Products division in the United States, 

Sweden and Switzerland. 

Before joining ABB, he worked for nine years at Cooper Power Systems in the 

United States.

Directorships held in other companies in India Nil

Memberships / Chairmanships of committees held in other 

companies in India

Nil

Shareholding in the Company Nil



42 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Directors’ Report

Your Directors have pleasure in presenting their Sixty Seventh Annual Report and Audited Accounts for the year ended 

December 31, 2016.

1. Financial Results:

(` in Crore)

2. Dividend:

 Your Directors recommend payment of a dividend at 

the rate of ` 4 (Rupees Four only) per share for the 

year ended December 31, 2016 on 211,908,375 equity 

shares of ` 2/- each.

3. Performance Review:

 The Company secured orders valued ` 12,466 crore in 

2016 as against ` 8,100 crore in the previous year, 

reflecting the technology push in the transmission 

business and the continued traction in transportation 

and renewable energy. Services and export-led orders 

resulted in more comprehensive customer 

engagements. The order backlog at the end of the 

year stood at ` 11,821 crore which continued to 

provide visibility to the future revenue streams. The 

revenue from operations for the Company for the year 

2016 stood at ` 8,648 crore as against ` 8,140 crore in 

the previous year, reflecting stability of operations in 

an uncertain market situation. Profit before tax was 

up by 21% at ` 576 crore in 2016 on higher sales as 

compared to ` 475 crore in the previous year mainly 

due to operational excellence initiatives, supply chain 

efficiencies, focus on project management. Net profit 

after tax was up by 25% at ` 376 crore for the current 

year as compared to ` 300 crore in the previous year. 

Consequently the earnings per share for the year 2016 

stood at ` 17.76 per share as compared to ` 14.15 per 

share in the year 2015.

Particulars For the year ended

December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015

Profit Before Taxation  576.05 474.59

Less: Provision for Tax  

- Current Tax  229.20 203.71

- Deferred Tax  (29.40) (29.00)

Profit after Tax  376.25 299.88

Balance Brought Forward from last year  109.41 103.90

Amount available for Appropriation  485.66 403.78

Appropriations:  

General Reserve  210.00   150.00

Debenture Redemption Reserve  50.00   50.00

Proposed Dividend  84.76   78.41

Corporate Dividend Tax  17.26   15.96

Balance Carried Forward  123.64 109.41

 485.66 403.78

 For detailed analysis of the performance, please refer 

to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis given in 

Annexure – A, forming part of this Report.

4. Extract of Annual Return: 

 As per provisions of Section 92 (3) of the Companies 

Act, 2013 (the Act) read with Rule 12 of the Companies 

(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 as 

amended from time to time, the extract of the Annual 

Return in the Form MGT-9 is given in Annexure – B, 

forming part of this report.

5. Board Meetings held during the year:

 As required under the Act and Securities and Exchange 

Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the Listing 

Regulations), during the year, 4 meetings of the Board 

of Directors were held and one meeting of 

Independent Directors was also held. The details of 

the meetings are furnished in the Corporate 

Governance Report.

6. Compliance on criteria of Independence by the 

Independent Directors:

 All Independent Directors of the Company have given 

declarations to the Company under Section 149 (7) of 

the Act that, they meet the criteria of independence 

as provided in Sub-Section 6 of Section 149 of the Act 

and also under the Listing Regulations.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 43

7. Remuneration Policy of the Company:

 The Remuneration Policy of the Company for 

appointment and remuneration of the Directors, Key 

Managerial Personnel and Senior Executives of the 

Company along with other related matters have been 

provided in the Corporate Governance Report.

 As and when need arises to appoint Director, the 

Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of 

the Company will determine the criteria based on the 

specific requirements. NRC while recommending 

candidature to the Board, will take into consideration 

the qualification, attributes, experience and 

Independence of the Candidate. Director(s) 

appointment and remuneration will be as per NRC 

Policy of the Company.

 A Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration pursuant 

to Section 197 of the Act read with Rule 5(1) of 

Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 

Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is given in 

Annexure – C, forming part of this report.

8. Dividend Distribution Policy:

 As required under the Regulation 43A of the Listing 

Regulations, the Company has formulated a Policy on 

Dividend Distribution. This Policy can be accessed on 

the Company’s website at www.abb.co.in.

9. Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments 

under Section 186 of the Act:

 During the year under review, your Company has not 

granted any Loan, Guarantees or made Investments 

within the meaning of Section 186 of the Act.

10. Amount, if any, proposed to be transferred to 

Reserves:

 The Company transferred a sum of ` 210 Crore 

towards General Reserve and ` 50 Crore towards 

Debenture Redemption Reserve during the Financial 

Year 2016.

11. Material changes and commitment, if any, affecting 

financial position of the Company from the end of 

Financial Year and till the date of this Report:

 There has been no material change and commitment, 

affecting the financial performance of the Company 

occurred between the end of the Financial Year of the 

Company to which the Financial Statements relate 

and the date of this Report.

12. Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption, 

Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo:

 The particulars as prescribed under Section 134 of the 

Act read with Rule 8 (3) of the Companies (Accounts) 

Rules, 2014, relating to Conservation of Energy, 

Technology Absorption, Foreign Exchange Earnings 

and Outgo are given in Annexure – D, forming part of 

this report.

13. Risk Management Policy:

 The Company is having a Risk Management Policy and 

constituted a Risk Management Committee as 

required under Listing Regulations. The Committee 

oversees the Risk Management process including risk 

identification, impact assessment, effective 

implementation of the mitigation plans and risk 

reporting. The purpose of the Committee is to assist 

the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight 

responsibilities with regard to enterprise risk 

management.

 The details and the process of Risk Management as 

implemented in the Company are provided as part of 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis which forms 

part of this Report.

14. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives:

 The Company is having a Policy on Corporate Social 

Responsibility and constituted a CSR Committee as 

required under the Act for implementing various CSR 

activities. Composition of the Committee and other 

details are provided in Corporate Governance Report. 

Education, Access to Electricity, Health Care, 

Environment, skills enhancement for creating 

employable opportunities for the differently abled 

personnel, etc., are the focal area under the CSR 

Policy.

 The Company has implemented various CSR projects 

directly and / or through implementing partners and 

the projects undertaken by the Company are in 

accordance with Schedule VII of the Act. During the 

year under review, the Company has achieved 99% of 

the amount to be spent by the Company on CSR 

activities.

 Detailed report on CSR activities as required under 

the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 

Policy) Rules, 2014 is given in Annexure – E, forming 

part of this report.



44 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

15. Annual evaluation of Board, its Committees and 

Individual Directors:

 The Board of Directors has carried out an annual 

evaluation of its own performance, its Committees 

and individual Directors pursuant to the requirements 

of the Act and the Listing Regulations.

 

 Further, the Independent Directors, at their exclusive 

meeting held during the year, reviewed the 

performance of the Board, its Chairman and Non-

Executive Directors and other items as stipulated 

under the Listing Regulations.

16. Audit Committee:

 The details pertaining to composition of the Audit 

Committee and terms of reference are included in the 

Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of 

this Report.

17. Related Party Transactions:

 The Board of Directors has adopted a policy on 

Related Party Transactions. The objective is to ensure 

proper approval, disclosure and reporting of 

transactions as applicable, between the Company 

and any of its related parties. All contracts or 

arrangements with related parties, entered into or 

modified during the financial year were at arm’s 

length basis and in the ordinary course of the 

Company’s business. All such contracts or 

arrangements were entered into only with prior 

approval of the Audit Committee, except transactions 

which qualified under Omnibus approval as permitted 

under law. During the year under review, there were 

no contracts or arrangements with related parties 

referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 188 of the Act 

as amended from time to time. Therefore, there is no 

requirement to report any transaction in Form No. 

AOC-2 in terms of Section 134 of the Act read with 

Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 as 

amended from time to time. Transactions with related 

parties, as per requirements of Accounting Standard 

18 are disclosed in the notes to accounts annexed to 

the financial statements. Your Company’s Policy on 

Related Party Transactions, as adopted by your Board, 

can be accessed on the Company’s website. Link for 

the same is http://new.abb.com/docs/

librariesprovider19/default-document-library/

related-party-transaction-policy.pdf?sfvrsn=2

18. Reporting of frauds:

 There was no instance of fraud during the year under 

review, which required the Statutory Auditors to 

report to the Audit Committee and /or Board under 

Section 143(12) of the Act and Rules framed 

thereunder.

19. Transfer to Investor Education and Protection Fund:

 As required under Section 124 of the Act, the 

unclaimed dividend amount aggregating to ` 21.01 

lakh lying with the Company for a period of seven 

years pertaining to the financial year ended on 

December 31, 2008, was transferred during the year 

2016, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 

established by the Central Government.

20. Particulars of Employees:

 The information on employees particulars as required 

under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) 

and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and 

Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 

as amended from time to time, are given in Annexure 

– F, forming part of this report. In terms of Section 136 

of the Act, the Report and Financial Statements are 

being sent to the Members and others entitled 

thereto, excluding this Annexure. This Annexure shall 

be provided to Members on a specific request made 

in writing to the Company. The said information is 

available for inspection by the Members at the 

Registered Office of the Company on any working day 

of the Company up to the date of the 67th Annual 

General Meeting.

21. Directors’ Responsibility Statement:

 To the best of our knowledge and belief and according 

to the information and explanations obtained by us, 

your Directors make the following statements in 

terms of Section 134(3) (c) and 134 (5) of the Act, that:

a) in the preparation of the annual financial 

statements for the year ended December 31, 

2016, the applicable Accounting Standards have 

been followed along with proper explanation 

relating to material departures, if applicable;

b) for the financial year ended December 31, 2016, 

such accounting policies as mentioned in the 

Notes to the financial statements have been 

applied consistently and judgments and 

estimates that are reasonable and prudent have 

been made so as to give a true and fair view of the 

state of affairs of the Company and of the Profit 

and Loss of the Company for the year ended 

December 31, 2016;

c) proper and sufficient care has been taken for the 

maintenance of adequate accounting records in 

accordance with the provisions of the Companies 

Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets of the 

Company and for preventing and detecting fraud 

and other irregularities;



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 45

d) the annual financial statements have been 

prepared on a going concern basis;

e) proper internal financial controls are in place and 

such internal financial controls are adequate and 

were operating effectively;

f) proper systems have been devised to ensure 

compliance with the provisions of all applicable 

laws and are adequate and operating effectively.

22. Corporate Governance Report and Certificate:

 As required under Regulation 34 (3) read with 

Schedule V (C) of the Listing Regulations, a report on 

Corporate Governance and the certificate as required 

under Schedule V (E) of the Listing Regulations from 

Messrs V. Sreedharan & Associates, Practicing 

Company Secretaries, regarding compliance of 

conditions of Corporate Governance are given in 

Annexure – G and Annexure – H respectively, forming 

part of this report.

23. Secretarial Audit:

 Pursuant to provisions of Section 204 of the Act read 

with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 

Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 

and amendments thereto, your Company engaged 

the services of Messrs HBP & Co., Company 

Secretaries, Bengaluru, to conduct the Secretarial 

Audit of the Company for the financial year ended 

December 31, 2016. The Secretarial Audit Report in 

Form MR-3 is given in Annexure – I, forming part of 

this report.

24. Business Responsibility Report:

 As required under Regulation 34 of the Listing 

Regulations, the Business Responsibility Report 

forms part of the Annual Report.

25. Whistle Blower Policy:

 The Company has a Vigil Mechanism for Directors and 

Employees to report their concerns about unethical 

behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the 

Company’s Code of conduct. The mechanism provides 

for adequate safeguards against victimization of 

Director(s) and Employee(s) who avail of the 

mechanism.

 The Whistle Blower Policy is available on Company’s 

website at www.abb.co.in.

26. Directors and Key Managerial Personnel:

 During the year under review there are no changes in 

Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the 

Company. Details of Directors, Key Managerial 

Personnel and Composition of various Committees of 

the Board are provided in the Corporate Governance 

Report forming part of this report.

 In accordance with the provisions of the Companies 

Act, 2013 read with Article 164 of the Articles of 

Association of the Company, Mr. Tarak Mehta  

(DIN: 06995639), Director, retire by rotation at the 

ensuing Annual General Meeting of the Company, and 

being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

 Necessary resolution relating to Director who is 

seeking re-appointment is included in the Notice of 

Annual General Meeting. The relevant details of the 

said Director is given in the annexure to the Notice of 

the Annual General Meeting.

 As on date, Mr. Sanjeev Sharma, Managing Director, 

Mr. B. Gururaj, Company Secretary and  

Mr. T.K. Sridhar, Chief Financial Officer, are the Key 

Managerial Personnel of the Company.

27. Deposits:

 During the year under review, your Company did not 

accept any deposit within the meaning of the 

provisions of Chapter V – Acceptance of Deposits by 

Companies read with the Companies (Acceptance of 

Deposits) Rules, 2014.

28. Significant and Material Orders Passed by the 

Regulators or Courts or Tribunals impacting the 

going concern status of the Company:

 There has been no significant and material order 

passed by the Regulators or Courts or Tribunals 

impacting the going concern status and Company’s 

operations. All orders received by the Company 

during the year are of routine in nature which have no 

significant / material impact.

29. Internal Control Systems and their adequacy:

 The details on Internal Control Systems and their 

adequacy are provided in the Management’s 

Discussion and Analysis which forms part of this 

Report.



46 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

30. Disclosure as per the Sexual Harassment of Women 

at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 

Act, 2013:

 The Company has zero tolerance towards sexual 

harassment at the workplace and has adopted a 

policy on prevention, prohibition and redressal of 

sexual harassment at workplace in line with the 

provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at 

Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 

Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder. As required under 

law, an Internal Compliance Committee has been 

constituted for reporting and conducting inquiry in to 

the complaints made by the victim on the harassments 

at the work place. During the year 2016, no complaint 

of sexual harassment has been received.

31. Statutory Auditors:

 Messrs S R BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP, Chartered 

Accountants (Firm Registration No. 101049W/

E300004), Statutory Auditors of the Company would 

retire on the conclusion of this Annual General 

Meeting on completion of their term of appointment. 

 

 Since Messrs S R BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP, 

Chartered Accountants are not eligible for re-

appointment as Statutory Auditors of the Company 

as per Companies Act, 2013, the Board of Directors on 

recommendation of the Audit Committee, 

recommended the appointment of Messrs B S R & Co. 

LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 

No.101248W/W-100022) as Statutory Auditors of the 

Company for a term of  5 years, in place of  

Messrs S R BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP to hold office 

from the conclusion of 67th Annual General Meeting 

until the conclusion of 72nd Annual General Meeting, 

subject to ratification of their appointment at every 

Annual General Meeting. Consent and certificate from 

the said firm has been received to the effect that their 

appointment as Statutory Auditors of the Company, 

if appointed at ensuing Annual General Meeting, 

would be according to the terms and conditions 

prescribed under Section 139 of the Act and Rules 

framed thereunder.

 A resolution seeking their appointment forms part of 

the Notice convening the 67th Annual General Meeting 

and the same is recommended for your consideration 

and approval.

32. Cost Auditor:

 In terms of the provisions of Section 148 of the Act 

read with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 

Rules, 2014 as amended from time to time, the Board 

of Directors, on the recommendation of the Audit 

Committee, have appointed Ashwin Solanki & 

Associates, Cost Accountant (Registration No: 

100392) as Cost Auditor of the Company, for the 

financial year ending December 31, 2017, on a 

remuneration as mentioned in the Notice convening 

the 67th Annual General Meeting for conducting the 

audit of the cost records maintained by the Company.

 A Certificate from Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost 

Accountant has been received to the effect that their 

appointment as Cost Auditor of the Company, if 

made, would be in accordance with the limits 

specified under Section 141 of the Act and Rules 

framed thereunder.

 A resolution seeking Member’s ratification for 

remuneration payable to Cost Auditor forms part of 

the Notice of the 67th Annual General Meeting of the 

Company and same is recommended for your 

consideration and ratification.

 Cost Audit and Compliance reports for the year 2015 

were not mandatory. 

33. Acknowledgements:

 The Board of Directors take this opportunity to thank 

the Company’s parent company, customers, 

members, suppliers, bankers, associates, Central and 

State Governments and employees at all levels for 

their support and co-operation extended to the 

Company during the year.

 For and on behalf of the Board 

 Frank Duggan

 Chairman

 DIN: 02937233

Place: Mumbai 

Date: March 23, 2017



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 47

—
Annexure – A to Directors’ Report

Management’s Discussions 

and Analysis

Economic and market overview

In 2016 India’s growth story was restrained with dispersed 

outcomes in the shadow of several geopolitical 

occurrences like various international elections, Brexit, 

continuing uncertainty in the Middle East and the 

watershed moment in domestic policymaking with 

demonetization initiatives. While the growth in 2016 was 

marginally lower than China, it was more positive than 

other nations like Mexico and Brazil. 

The year started with encouraging signs of growth in the 

country. Favorable government policies and continued 

public spending led to performance improvement in core 

sectors such as cement and steel as well as electricity. 

Also, the FDI inflows improved from the previous year. 

Sectors like renewable energy and the government push in 

transportation resulted in some traction. However, the 

Index of Industrial Production (IIP) growth slowed, 

dragged by the capital goods sector, which was down 

through the year. In the last quarter of 2016, the 

government passed the landmark Goods and Services Tax 

(GST) Bill aimed at simplifying the goods tax structure by 

bringing it into a centralized system. The US Federal 

Reserve retained the December 2015 rates for almost an 

entire year and revisited them only in December 2016. 

The second half of the year proved to be quite different 

from the first. The capital goods output continued to 

contract despite various reforms. Food prices remained 

on the lower end pressuring the CPI to a two-year low. 

These factors pulled the industrial output down into the 

negative zone, and the continuing increase in imports 

further widened the trade deficit. The global dynamics 

and domestic events described earlier also added to the 

uncertainty.

Though the Indian currency appreciated marginally 

against EUR, it fell to 70 to a USD touching the lowest ever 

since 2013, as investors queued up for dollar-based assets 

in light of the US election results. However, it still remained 

stronger than other Asian currencies. Within India, the 

drive to purge unaccounted funds (black money) led to the 

removal of around 86% of the currency from circulation. 

The short-term impact of the move was a reduction in 

consumer spends and is expected to impact the GDP. 

Positively, banks had higher deposit and liquidity, there is 

also greater push for digitization of transactions, and the 

retail and food inflation fell to 2.11 percent towards the 

end of the year. 

Overall, owing to the movement in the economy and the 

seasonal slowdown, the order size and volume of existing 

and new projects during this year remained subdued than 

the previous year. 

Operational Overview

The Company has been closely tuned to market changes, 

which has helped it steer through the year smoothly 

despite the unexpected fluctuations in the macro 

economy. The Company strategically planned at improving 

the operational efficiency, executing orders, and 

stabilizing the cost structure to shield from external 

fluctuations. As a result of this pursuit, the Company was 

cash positive right at the start of the year and continued 

this momentum in the succeeding quarters. 

Investments towards localizing and product engineering, 

increasing operational efficiency, shifting the product mix 

across business divisions and magnifying value to our 

customers led to benefits including margin improvement. 

The Company doubled the capacity of the solar inverter 

factory in Bengaluru, aligning it well to partner in the 

country’s vision of 100 GW solar power generation 

capacity by 2022, providing the Company with an edge to 

serve the market segment when the opportunity comes. 

During the year, the Company announced two key strategic 

global partnerships. One with Microsoft, which will be a 

digital industrial transformation partner for ABB globally. 

ABB and Microsoft will collaborate to build a platform for 

digitalization. As one of the key Group-level strategies, the 

Company is building its portfolio around digitalization 

driving futuristic industrial solutions for customers. The 

other with Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M) , 

wherein the Company and IIT-M have signed a 

Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the 

development of microgrids and battery storage. 

During the year, orders grew at ` 12,466 crore as against  

` 8,100 crore in the previous year reflecting the technology 

push in the transmission business and the continued 

traction in transportation and renewable energy. Services 

and export-led orders resulted in more comprehensive 

customer engagements. 

The revenue for 2016 improved to ` 8,648 crore as against 

` 8,140 crore in 2015, reflecting the stability of operations 

in an uncertain market. The order backlog at the end of the 

year was at ` 11,821 crore, providing visibility to the future 

revenue streams. 



48 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

Profit before tax grew substantially to ` 576 crore in 2016 

as compared to ̀  475 crore in the previous year mainly due 

to higher operational efficiency, lower material cost and 

investments towards entering newer markets. Profit after 

tax posted a growth of 25 percent at ` 376 crore for the 

current year as compared to ` 300 crore in the previous 

year. Consequently, the earnings per share for 2016 stood 

at ` 17.76 per share as compared to ` 14.15 in 2015.

Services 

In pursuit of delivering world-class customer experience, 

ABB has always focused on offering value-based 

engagement and putting the customer first. This 

relentless approach helped the Company achieve double-

digit growth in service operations, which, on an average, 

accounted for a substantial part of the order dimension. 

Going beyond the conventional approach of transactional 

business relationship for spare parts and field services, 

the Company adopted the RAS (Reliability, Availability & 

Safety) based approach with customized solutions and 

reconnected with the existing installed base to meet 

customers’ requirements in optimizing and managing 

their assets. Apart from the portfolio of energy efficiency 

and power quality, retrofit and debottlenecking services, 

equipment performance management (EPM) and 

personnel training, the Company is including some 

futuristic offerings in its portfolio like cyber security, data 

analytics, and remote monitoring, leading to clear 

technical differentiation and unlocking the full potential 

of our services offering. 

During the year, marquee customers including Adani 

Group, International Paper, Kansai Nerolac Paints, Biocon 

Limited, etc., recognized the Company for its service 

commitment and Power Grid Corporation of India (PGCIL), 

Jindal Steel Works (JSW) Group, Oil and Natural Gas 

Corporation Limited (ONGC), Steel Authority of India 

Limited (SAIL), UltraTech Cement, Indian Oil, National 

Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), Indian Railways, and 

Deccan Chemicals, extended their service engagement 

with the Company.

Exports

Despite slow movement in large orders, ABB India’s 

exports grew over the last year. Base orders were more 

than 80 percent of total exports in 2016 and increased by 

10 percent over last year. Strong team effort saw 

significant success for products like transformers, high 

voltage circuit breakers, rectifiers and LV motors, and for 

systems in Process Industries and Oil and Gas business 

units.

2016 saw exports creating new footprints in Africa while 

consolidating and expanding in the Middle East. While 

there were some repeat orders for transformers in 

Ethiopia, the Company received significant orders from 

Dubai and South Africa for LV motors and for rectifiers 

from Indonesia. Process Automation bagged cement 

plant projects in Bahrain and Uganda, while Oil and Gas 

business unit won orders in the UAE.

Operational excellence

2016 was the third year of ABB’s transformational journey 

to achieving operational excellence and becoming the 

partner of choice in its industry segments. ABB’s Next 

Level Strategy aimed at profitable growth, relentless 

execution, and business-led collaboration. In an extension 

of the strategy, the Company adopted various operational 

excellence initiatives across people and processes to 

provide a stronger positioning in uncertain markets. This 

was a multi-pronged approach towards productivity 

improvement, people management, localization and cost 

management.

Outlook

In 2017, global growth is likely to remain modest, plagued 

by various global political uncertainties, with the energy 

and the fourth industrial revolution providing 

opportunities and challenges in equal measure. Initial 

estimates have downgraded growth prospects in India 

due to the short-term impact of invalidating high-value 

currencies. However, in the coming year, some projects 

announcements might be forthcoming from government 

spending towards technology upgradation and 

modernization of the existing infrastructure in Railways, 

Ports and Metro, and reformative programs under the 

government initiatives of Digital India, Smart Cities and 

Make in India. 

Technology push in power transmission and distribution 

and advanced manufacturing could be the other bright 

spots. Investments in the private sector are expected to 

be subdued in the first half of the year owing to the 

deferral in consumption and an ensuing lag in capacity 

utilization. However, the Company enjoys a vast installed 

base in the country and continues to mine these accounts 

for deeper penetration and high-value engagement. Over 

the coming years, the Company will assess and partner in 

establishing the next level in Indian industries and utilities 

through automation and digitalization, working closely 

with customers to deploy solutions that best fit local 

needs.

Despite the slowdown, there may appear to be a fair 

number of projects in the market, and the Company will 

exercise its choice with caution and proceed with 

discretion and due diligence in terms of credit availability 

(cash over revenue), scope, and safety of the employees 

while strengthening order books. The Company will 

continue to relentlessly work towards driving operational 

excellence and adopting innovations. As India takes 

strides towards a clean energy future, the Company is well 

positioned to partner with technology and solutions to 

decouple growth from carbon emissions. 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 49

Power Grids

Summarized performance:

(` in crore) 

The Power Grids division was formed to offer power and 

automation products, systems and services across the 

power value chain. In its first year of operation as a new 

division, the economic climate in the country remained 

mixed. Growth in capital expenditure was lower than 

expected despite growth in GDP and the overall economic 

environment. Sustained focus on profitable initiatives and 

emerging areas compensated for the slowdown across 

core sectors. The division secured notable rail, metro, 

renewables and power transmission orders.

Successful commissioning of a 1,200kV transformer and 

breakers at PGCIL’s Bina substation show our strong 

commitment to innovation, consistent R&D investments, 

and leadership in technology. We also helped in restoring 

power in record time at the Sharavathy Hydel Power Plant, 

which had come to an abrupt halt due to a massive fire. 

The division sustained and enhanced its leadership 

position in 2016.

Major orders booked during 2016:

• Raigarh-Pugalur (RP800) 6,000 MW 800kV Multi 

Terminal UHVDC project

• Order to supply 1,600 traction transformers from 

Alstom Transport

• First digital substation order from Technopark, Kerala

• 765kV & 400kV Air Insulated Substation extensions at 

Vindhyachal, Dharamjaygarh, Champa, Raipur, Raigarh 

(Kotra) and Bilaspur: PGCIL

• 400kV Gas Insulated Substation extensions – Silchar 

and Misa projects for PGCIL

• Order for Reactors and Transformers from PGCIL for 

Parli and Bikaner transmission projects

Major orders successfully commissioned during 2016 

included:

• 5 Air Insulated Substations for 648 MW solar project for 

Adani Solar at Kamuthi

• 400/220kV PTCUL Srinagar Air Insulated Substation 

across multiple levels in hilly terrain

• 765/400kV Champa Air Insulated Substation for PGCIL

• 400kV GIS Substation at Malerkottla for PGCIL

• 225/16.5 KV Air Insulated Substation project at Djibi, 

Ivory Coast

• 9 X 420kV and 9 X 245 kV GIS bays at Patran BOOT 

project of Techno Electric

Particulars 2016 2015

Orders 7,369 3,210

Order Backlog 8,494 4,543

Revenue 3,528 3,533

Results 175 216

Particulars 2016 2015

Orders 2,407 2,306

Order Backlog 1,902 1,805

Revenue 2,337 2,062

Results 222 170

• 26 X 245 kV GIS bays at Dahej and Hazira sites of Reliance

• 17 X 245kV and 16 X 72.5kV PASS bays at GETCO Gotri, 

Santej and Suva substations

Segment outlook

The renewables outlook looks brighter with a conducive 

policy environment. However, the pace at which projects 

are being commissioned is a matter of concern as the 

developers are facing various challenges in 

implementation.

The power sector is expected to perform well on the back 

of increasing foreign investment in the sector, policy 

liberalization and government initiatives like smart grid 

projects. Green Energy Corridor Projects are under various 

stages of implementation and are expected to bring in 

orders next year. Grid stability solutions like FACTS and 

HVDC continue to be the focus areas for the transmission 

and distribution sector and provide major opportunities. 

Metro Rail projects also continue to receive significance 

with over 20 projects in various stages of planning and 

ordering. With Tariff-Based Competitive Bidding (TBCB) 

route for transmission projects, we see price pressure and 

aggressive competition.

Overall, we expect the market to remain stable with 

demand led by government spending in power, railways 

and infrastructure sectors. CAPEX from industries could 

see a recovery in the later part of 2017. 

Discrete Automation and Motion

Summarized performance:

(` in crore)

Looking at the de-growth in heavy industry, the division 

shifted its focus towards the light industry and increased 

its penetration in the food and beverage, HVAC and 

machinery sectors while continuing to grow in the solar 

and wind sectors. A new solar factory was inaugurated 

during the year, which doubles the capacity of solar 

inverters manufactured in India. The channel partner 

network continues to be a pillar of strength reaching far 

and wide in the country with ABB products. This has 

ensured a steady growth in short cycle orders and further 

penetration into Tier-II and Tier-III cities. The increase in 

revenue, localization, supply chain initiatives, strategic 

marketing moves and operational efficiencies resulted in 

improving the profitability. Commissioning of the largest 

single location solar power project at Kamuthi in Tamil 

Nadu was a landmark achievement for the division in 2016.



50 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

The division continued its growth trend in a challenging 

market while keeping its focus on continuous efforts in 

developing market share through customer-focused 

activities. It continues to extend its product offering with 

the addition of new products and strong sales channel 

management, leading to market penetration. The Division 

has grown across all channels and products on a 

continuous basis. Continued emphasis on local 

manufacturing is resulting in quicker market access and 

strong on-time delivery performance. Capacity utilization 

on some of the Division’s lines has been at an all-time high. 

The segment witnessed a healthy service business on 

account of a greater focus on leveraging the installed 

base. Despite a severe negative sentiment in the oil and 

gas business, significant orders were booked in mid- and 

down-stream sectors. The turbocharger business saw a 

huge jump in component export. Significant orders were 

won in the hydro power and renewables sector in the area 

of automation and ABB is now a major player in the 

renewables market. The segment actively focused on 

developing solutions and increasing presence in the IoT 

space for the core sectors. Implementation of the Plant 

Control Center solution for one of the largest steel 

producers in the country paves the way for the company 

Particulars 2016 2015

Orders 1,799 1,657

Order Backlog 795 712

Revenue 1,776 1,651

Results 246 191

Particulars 2016 2015

Orders 1,216 1,232

Order backlog 986 1,077

Revenue 1,326 1,337

Results 154 150

New technology, product range, and capacity expansion 

activities during the year included:

• New solar inverter factory to double capacity in 

Nelamangala, Bengaluru

• Smoke venting motor introduction in the market

• Improved design IE3 range of high-efficiency motors 

introduced

Significant orders received:

• Wind generators for Gamesa Renewables Pvt. Ltd. and 

Inox Wind Ltd.

• Solar inverters for Azure Power, Jakson Engineering, 

Renew Solar, Sterling Generators, Avengers Ray Solar, 

Orange Suvaan Energy, Tata Power Solar and Welspun 

Renewables 

• Propulsion converters for Chittaranjan Locomotive 

Works

• Medium voltage drives for lift irrigation projects of 

Megha Engineering and Infrastructure and Navayuga 

Engineering Co. Ltd.

• Robotics for Ford India Pvt. Ltd., Royal Enfield, Suzuki 

Motors Gujarat Pvt. Ltd., Gestamp Automotive Chennai 

Pvt. Ltd.

Sector outlook

Competitors developing new domestic capacities are 

likely to pressure volume and price realizations. The tight 

liquidity in the market, especially faced by the small and 

medium size customers, and delay in project execution 

due to lack of cash or high cost of funds will continue to 

impact the orders. However, the ongoing strategic thrust 

on market penetration, channel partner initiatives, 

customer engagement coupled with capacity addition 

and range expansion will support growth momentum.

Electrification Products

Summarized performance:

(` in crore)

The launch of the XT range of MCCBs and their quick 

localization is an example of commitment to local 

manufacturing.

Multiple initiatives under ‘ease of doing business and 

process’ have been strengthened with teams focused on 

customer satisfaction delivery in logistics, quality and 

after sales warranty service.

Segment outlook

There was a mix of orders from industries that had a 

positive impact on demand for low voltage products, 

keeping the hope for market segments to start pulling 

together. Demand for energy efficient solutions, smart 

systems in infrastructure, and innovative product 

solutions in the renewables space are expected to increase 

demand. The market is moving towards better quality 

products with a good life-cycle requirement. The change 

in the market trend that started a couple of years back on 

type-tested boards is opening a distinct market for 

switchboard offering and is also increasing our 

engagement with integrators.

The focus remains strictly on the customer, providing 

them with the latest in technology and innovation through 

locally-produced products and solutions, with geographic 

and segment coverage. We expect the market to move 

positively towards growth with demand being driven by 

strong government spending in power, infrastructure, and 

transportation and the housing sector. Segments like 

water, datacenters, pharmaceuticals, hospitality, 

healthcare and food and beverage will continue to be at 

the core of the division’s efforts for generating stronger 

growth.

Process Automation

Summarized performance:

(` in crore)



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 51

to establish itself as a significant player in the IoT space. 

Thrust on exports in the core sector to Africa was a huge 

focus area with some early wins.

The segment introduced electromagnetic flowmeter with 

a flangeless design for the water segment.

Significant orders received in 2016 included: 

• Secured major market share in ALCO 3300HP 

turbochargers (TPR61) 

• Integrated 800xA DCS for LNG Regasification - first 

installation for ABB in India and the country’s first 

integrated process, power and safety solution

• Major multi-site win for an upgrade of complete control 

system across nine locations for Ultratech Cement. 

• First direct cement order from Tororo in Uganda for 

automation and electricals

• First order in the African market for an Oil and Gas 

corporation for Oil (Electricals and Telecom) receiving 

terminal 

• 173 new Turbochargers supplied to Indian Railways 

in 2016 taking the total installed base of 3000+ 

turbochargers in the company 

• Breakthrough in CEMS orders for Reliance Jamnagar 

Complex

• Order for API and Bioreactor Plant Automation for 

Anthem Bio including mobility solutions

• First DCS and Coriolis mass flowmeter for alcohol 

blending for Pernod Ricard 

• Smart Factory solutions for Britannia Industries Ltd. 

with single point real-time monitoring and control 

• Composite order for DCS and Instrumentation from 

Berger Paints (Assam Project)

Major orders that were successfully commissioned in 

2016:

• Automation for the world’s largest single location PV 

plant –Adani Kamuthi 648MW project, Tamil Nadu. 

• KPCL Hydro 10x108 MW order helped gain No.1 position 

in Hydro segment in Karnataka

• Plant Control Centre for JSW, Tornagulu, Karnataka – 

major reference in the IoT space

• State-of-the-art SCADA implementation for 1000 KM 

Multi oil pipeline for Indian Oil (Paradeep-Raipur-Ranchi)

• Asian Paints (4 sites) - automation including MES & EMS

Segment outlook

The segment will continue to focus on enhancing 

operational efficiencies including supply chain 

management and engineering to remain competitive. 

Focus on value-add solutions in addition to traditional 

automation offerings including IoT will help improve the 

topline. However, topline growth from the core sector is 

likely to be dormant until end of the year and subjective to 

the pace of policy implementation and execution. 

Investments will be triggered in the oil and gas sector with 

Euro-6 norms being implemented. Also, with a significant 

focus and commitment of the Government on clean energy 

as part of the 20020 vision, investments are likely to be 

seen in LPG import terminals and LNG re-gasification. The 

water and power segment including renewables will 

significantly drive growth for the segment. Focus on the 

F&B and Pharma will ensure penetration in the growing 

markets.

Human Resources

The people strategy was aligned with the Company’s 

overall ambition to accelerate sustainable value creation. 

This required providing a stable work environment in an 

uncertain market and maximizing the potential of the 

workforce. Through its evolving employee-friendly 

policies and processes, the Company’s Human Resources 

encouraged and demonstrated dynamism and openness 

towards change. The Company made strategic decisions 

in key Human Resources areas that have enabled growth 

and resulted in a performance-driven year.

During the year, ABB consistently set a clear path to learn 

and adapt to perform better in a volatile market situation 

with its enhanced performance management and talent 

strategy, focusing on building a healthy pipeline by 

attracting, assessing and developing quality talent. In 

addition, persistent attention to providing an inclusive 

environment to promote diversity in gender, age and 

culture, including opportunities for global mobility, also 

form a part of the proactive plan to manage talent in the 

key function areas. The new ABB Competency Model, 

aligned with the business strategy, helps the Company 

realize its full potential, individually and as an organization.

As a part of the next level strategy, in 2016, the Company’s 

Human Resources also made great strides in establishing 

a world-class Global Business Services (GBS) organization 

and Centers of Excellence (CoE) in India. These centers will 

help to keep the focus on driving optimization and 

productivity, while preserving a service mindset and 

making the Company faster, more agile, customer-

focused, and ultimately, strengthen its position as a 

preferred employer in a rapidly evolving market.

Industrial relations remained cordial and harmonious 

across all manufacturing locations. At the close of the 

year, the company had 5,603 permanent employees, as 

against 5,839 in the previous year.

Finance

Despite the significant cut in the interest rates by the RBI, 

liquidity in the market remained tight. In addition to 

limited funding, existing capacity glut translated to even 

lesser investment by industries in greenfield and 

brownfield projects. Due to the issue of non-convertible 

debentures of ` 600 crore last year, the Company lowered 

the cost of finance for a part of its debt. In addition, the 



52 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

Company’s reputation in the market and long-term 

goodwill with leading banks ensured advantageous 

arrangements of various finance facilities. In 2016, the 

interest cost borne by the Company was ` 85 crore 

compared to ` 91 crore in 2015. As of December 31, 2016, 

the Company’s had net cash balance of ` 589 crore. In 

terms of foreign currency exposure – for imports and 

exports – the Company continued to conservatively hedge 

at the point of commitment to protecting the contract 

margins.

Internal control systems 

Internal Controls in the Company have been designed to 

further the interest of all its stakeholders by providing an 

environment, which is conducive to conduct its operations. 

In doing so, the Company’s Internal Control environment 

has evolved over a decade to take care of, inter alia, 

financial and operational risks. The department owns a 

holistic Internal Control framework comprising of 

elements like Country Management Committee, Group 

Directives and Instructions, Local Management 

Instructions, Process and Entity Level controls, Enterprise 

Risk Management, Local Direct Management Testing 

Programs, and a strong emphasis on integrity and ethics 

as a part of work culture. An independent service provider, 

having expertise in the field, has performed current year’s 

Internal Financial Control effectiveness testing. A well-

organized Group level tool (GRCM) is available to handle 

testing, Internal Audit Issues, deficiency tracking, etc. 

Further, the in-house independent Internal Audit team 

acts as a pillar to support our control objectives. ABB India 

also has a well-functioning Whistle Blower Policy in place 

to report any misdoing. Internal Control framework of ABB 

India is aligned with one of the most matured IC 

frameworks – COSO 1992, and then transitioned to COSO 

2013. As per requirement of The Companies Act, 2013, the 

Company got an independent evaluation of Internal 

Financial Control (IFC) resulting in minor updates to the 

control environment during the year. 

Risk management

The Company has a Risk Management Charter and Policy, 

which provides an overall framework for Risk Management 

(RM) in the Company. The Risk Management Committee 

assists the Board in risk assessment, formulation and 

implementation of guidelines, management of key risks, 

risk minimization procedures and periodical review. 

The key elements of the company’s risk management 

framework have been captured in the risk management 

policy, which details the process for identifying, 

escalating, prioritizing, mitigating and monitoring key 

risk events and action plans. The assessment of the risks 

covers areas of Strategy, Technology, Finance, Operations 

and Systems, Legal & Regulatory and Human Resources 

Risks. There are appropriate assurance and monitoring 

mechanisms in place to monitor the effectiveness of the 

risk management framework including the mitigation 

plans identified by the management for key risks identified 

through the risk management exercise. The risk 

management committee also periodically evaluates the 

effectiveness of the risk management framework and 

systems.

The Company’s existing framework provides for risk 

reviews at various levels based on company’s 

organizational structure matrix. Periodic assessment of 

risks, potential impact relating to business growth, 

profitability, talent engagement, and market position are 

conducted. Response to key operational risks, based on 

inputs received from the internal and external assessment, 

internal audit, performance review etc. are done on a 

regular basis. The outcome of business review meetings 

regarding processes and their compliance, as well as 

observations of the Risk Management Committee and the 

Board of Directors are continuously incorporated into Risk 

Management Framework.

Division realignment

Further to the division segmentation declared early this 

year, the Company has announced some repositioning of 

certain local business units and renamed some of the 

existing units to address their respective market segments. 

Starting January 1, 2017, the Discrete Automation and 

Motion division is called Robotics and Motion. It will focus 

on the future of productivity specific to Robotics in the 

manufacturing sector. The Process Automation division 

has been renamed Industrial Automation. The Power Grids 

and Electrification Products divisions, retain their name, 

the latter will see a portfolio expansion with the inclusion 

of electric vehicle charging, solar and power quality 

businesses in the division.

 For and on behalf of the Board 

 Frank Duggan

 Chairman

 DIN: 02937233

Place: Mumbai 

Date: March 23, 2017



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 53

—
Annexure - B to Directors’ Report

Form No. MGT-9

[Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) 

Rules, 2014] Extract of Annual Return

As on the financial year ended on 31.12.2016

I. REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS:

II. PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY:

All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the Company

III. PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES:

Sl. No. Particulars Details

i. CIN L32202KA1949PLC032923

ii. Registration Date 24.12.1949

iii. Name of the Company ABB India Limited

iv. Category / Sub-Category of the Company Public Company, Limited by Shares

v. Address of the Registered office and contact details 21st Floor, Word Trade Center, Brigade Gateway, No.26/1,  

Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram West, Bengaluru 560 055  

Phone: +91 80-22949150 to 22949153

Fax: +91 80-22949148

vi. Whether listed company Yes

vii. Name, Address and Contact details of Registrar and Share 

Transfer Agents, if any

Karvy Computershare Private Limited

46, Avenue, 4th Street, No.1, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad – 500 034.  

Phone: 1800 3454 001 / 040 6716 2222

Fax: 040 – 2342 0814

Email: einward.ris@karvy.com

Sl. No. Name and Description of main products / services NIC Code of the  

Product / service

% to total turnover  

of the Company

1 Manufacture of electric motors,

generators, transformers and electricity

distribution and control apparatus 

271 78

2 Manufacture of other electrical equipment 279 14

Sl. No. Name and address of the Company CIN/GLN Holding / Subsidiary

/ Associate

% of shares held Applicable Section

1 ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited 

Affolternstrasse 44

P.O. Box 8131 CH-8050, Zurich,  

Switzerland 

NA Holding 69.08 2(46)



54 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

IV. SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (Equity Share Capital breakup as percentage of total Equity):

i. Category-wise Share Holding:

Sl.
No.

Category of Shareholders No. of shares held at the beginning of the year No. of shares held at the end of the year % change 
during the 
year

Demat Physical Total % of total 
shares

Demat Physical Total % of total 
shares

(I) (II) (III) (IV) (V) (VI) (VII) (VIII) (IX) (X) (XI)

(A) Promoter and Promoter Group

(1) Indian

(a) Individual / HUF 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(b) Central Government / State 
Government(s)

0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(c) Bodies Corporate 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(d) Financial Institutions / Banks 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(e) Others 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

 Sub-Total A(1): 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(2) Foreign          

(a) Individuals (NRIs / Foreign 
Individuals)

0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(b) Bodies Corporate 158931281 0 158931281 75.00 158931281 0 158931281 75.00 0.00

(c) Institutions 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(d) Qualified Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(e) Others 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

 Sub-Total A(2): 158931281 0 158931281 75.00 158931281 0 158931281 75.00 0.00

 Total A=A(1)+A(2): 158931281 0 158931281 75.00 158931281 0 158931281 75.00 0.00

(B) Public Shareholding          

(1) Institutions          

(a) Mutual Funds / UTI 4948678 0 4948678 2.34 5704547 0 5704547 2.69 -0.36

(b) Financial Institutions / Banks 21220712 7200 21227912 10.02 20885528 7200 20892728 9.86 0.16

(c) Central Government / State 
Government(s)

0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(d) Venture Capital Funds 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(e) Insurance Companies 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(f) Foreign Institutional Investors 9253366 1305 9254671 4.37 9263312 1305 9264617 4.37 0.00

(g) Foreign Venture Capital 
Investors 

0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(h) Qualified Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(i) Others 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

  Sub-Total B(1): 35422756 8505 35431261 16.72 35853387 8505 35861892 16.92 -0.20

           

(2) Non-Institutions          

(a) Bodies Corporate 2063129 21294 2084423 0.98 1757718 20379 1778097 0.84 0.14

(b) Individuals          

 (i) Individuals holding nominal 
share capital upto ` 1 lakh

12185182 2774800 14959982 7.06 12136206 2659602 14795808 6.98 0.08

 (ii) Individuals holding nominal 
share capital in excess of  
` 1 lakh

165720 0 165720 0.08 165720 0 165720 0.08 0.00

(c) Others          

 Clearing Members 13560 0 13560 0.01 18330 0 18330 0.01 0.00

 Foreign Nationals 0 705 705 0.00 0 705 705 0.00 0.00

 Non Resident Indians 281697 440 282137 0.13 149219 440 149659 0.07 0.06

 NRI Non-Repatriation 18735 0 18735 0.01 188451 0 188451 0.09 -0.08

 NRI Repatriation 8369 3415 11784 0.01 5385 3265 8650 0.00 0.00

 Trusts 2907 5880 8787 0.00 3902 5880 9782 0.00 0.00

(d) Qualified Foreign Investor 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

  Sub-Total B(2): 14739299 2806534 17545833 8.28 14424931 2690271 17115202 8.08 0.20

  Total B=B(1)+B(2): 50162055 2815039 52977094 25.00 50278318 2698776 52977094 25.00 0.00

  Total (A+B): 209093336 2815039 211908375 100.00 209209599 2698776 211908375 100.00 0.00

(C) Shares held by custodians, 
against which Depository 
Receipts have been issued

0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(1) Promoter and Promoter Group 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

(2) Public 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00

 Grand Total (A+B+C): 209093336 2815039 211908375 100.00 209209599 2698776 211908375 100.00 0.00 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 55

ii. Shareholding of Promoters:

iii. Change in Promoters’ Shareholding (please specify, if there is no change):

There was no change in the Promoters’ shareholding during the Financial Year 2016.

iv. Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (Other than Directors, Promoters and holders of GDRs and ADRs):

Sl. 

No.

Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning of the year Shareholding at the end of the year % change in 

shareholding 

during the year
No. of Shares % of total 

Shares of the 

company

%of Shares 

Pledged / 

encumbered 

to total shares

No. of Shares % of total 

Shares of the 

company

%of Shares 

Pledged / 

encumbered 

to total shares

1. ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd 146390951 69.08 0 146390951 69.08 0 0

2. ABB Norden Holding AB 12540330 5.92 0 12540330 5.92 0 0

Total 158931281 75.00 0 158931281 75.00 0 0

Sl. 

No.

Date Type Shareholding at the beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding during the Year

No of Shares % of total shares of 

the company

No of Shares % of total shares of 

the company

1 Name: Life Insurance Corporation of India

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 17560357 8.29

22/07/2016 Sale -12309 0.01 17548048 8.28

29/07/2016 Sale -52744 0.02 17495304 8.26

05/08/2016 Sale -11418 0.01 17483886 8.25

12/08/2016 Sale -7369 0.00 17476517 8.25

14/10/2016 Sale -43450 0.02 17433067 8.23

21/10/2016 Sale -77603 0.04 17355464 8.19

28/10/2016 Sale -13167 0.01 17342297 8.18

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 17342297 8.18

2 Name: Aberdeen Global Indian Equity Limited

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 3700000 1.75

10/06/2016 Sale -188266 0.09 3511734 1.66

17/06/2016 Sale -31734 0.01 3480000 1.64

19/08/2016 Sale -11955 0.01 3468045 1.64

26/08/2016 Sale -12870 0.01 3455175 1.63

02/09/2016 Sale -16066 0.01 3439109 1.62

09/09/2016 Sale -107012 0.05 3332097 1.57

16/09/2016 Sale -30345 0.01 3301752 1.56

23/09/2016 Sale -27547 0.01 3274205 1.55

30/09/2016 Sale -8588 0.00 3265617 1.54

07/10/2016 Sale -26923 0.01 3238694 1.53

14/10/2016 Sale -3145 0.00 3235549 1.53

21/10/2016 Sale -4286 0.00 3231263 1.52

18/11/2016 Sale -5393 0.00 3225870 1.52

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 3225870 1.52

3 Name: HDFC Trustee Company Limited - HDFC Top 200 Fund

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 1754200 0.83

05/02/2016 Purchase 100000 0.05 1854200 0.88

12/02/2016 Purchase 100000 0.05 1954200 0.92

16/09/2016 Purchase 50000 0.02 2004200 0.95

14/10/2016 Purchase 38500 0.02 2042700 0.96

21/10/2016 Purchase 12500 0.01 2055200 0.97

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 2055200 0.97

4 Name: Life Insurance Corporation of India P & GS Fund

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 1225192 0.58

22/07/2016 Sale -14215 -0.01 1210977 0.57

29/07/2016 Sale -31674 -0.01 1179303 0.56

05/08/2016 Sale -2235 0.00 1177068 0.56

12/08/2016 Sale -7000 0.00 1170068 0.55

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 1170068 0.55



56 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

Sl. 

No.

Date Type Shareholding at the beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding during the Year

No of Shares % of total shares of 

the company

No of Shares % of total shares of 

the company

5 Name: General Insurance Corporation of India

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 1157387 0.55

20/05/2016 Sale -11334 -0.01 1146053 0.54

03/06/2016 Sale -5000 0.00 1141053 0.54

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 1141053 0.54

6 Name: Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund A Series of Vanguard International Equity Index Fund

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 862316 0.41

15/01/2016 Sale -5831 0.00 856485 0.40

22/01/2016 Sale -3048 0.00 853437 0.40

05/02/2016 Sale -10200 0.00 843237 0.40

12/02/2016 Sale -3920 0.00 839317 0.40

26/02/2016 Sale -6998 0.00 832319 0.39

04/03/2016 Sale -10636 -0.01 821683 0.39

11/03/2016 Purchase 2220 0.00 823903 0.39

18/03/2016 Sale -2982 0.00 820921 0.39

25/03/2016 Sale -5821 0.00 815100 0.38

08/04/2016 Purchase 3416 0.00 818516 0.39

22/04/2016 Purchase 1665 0.00 820181 0.39

10/06/2016 Purchase 2484 0.00 822665 0.39

24/06/2016 Purchase 9152 0.00 831817 0.39

22/07/2016 Purchase 1872 0.00 833689 0.39

29/07/2016 Purchase 5646 0.00 839335 0.40

05/08/2016 Purchase 4515 0.00 843850 0.40

12/08/2016 Purchase 4680 0.00 848530 0.40

19/08/2016 Purchase 6058 0.00 854588 0.40

09/09/2016 Purchase 2940 0.00 857528 0.40

07/10/2016 Purchase 3136 0.00 860664 0.41

14/10/2016 Purchase 2156 0.00 862820 0.41

21/10/2016 Purchase 7350 0.00 870170 0.41

28/10/2016 Purchase 2940 0.00 873110 0.41

11/11/2016 Purchase 6370 0.00 879480 0.42

25/11/2016 Purchase 7742 0.00 887222 0.42

02/12/2016 Purchase 4410 0.00 891632 0.42

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 891632 0.42

7 Name: Reliance Capital Trustee Co. Ltd. - A/C Reliance Tax Saver (ELSS) Fund

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 702000 0.33

08/04/2016 Purchase 12316 0.01 714316 0.34

17/06/2016 Purchase 5000 0.00 719316 0.34

30/06/2016 Purchase 36684 0.02 756000 0.36

09/09/2016 Purchase 81000 0.04 837000 0.39

16/09/2016 Purchase 42747 0.02 879747 0.42

23/09/2016 Purchase 20253 0.01 900000 0.42

30/09/2016 Purchase 40574 0.02 940574 0.44

07/10/2016 Purchase 43602 0.02 984176 0.46

14/10/2016 Purchase 50824 0.02 1035000 0.49

21/10/2016 Purchase 153000 0.07 1188000 0.56

28/10/2016 Purchase 9000 0.00 1197000 0.56

04/11/2016 Purchase 86739 0.04 1283739 0.61

11/11/2016 Purchase 57477 0.03 1341216 0.63

18/11/2016 Purchase 90828 0.04 1432044 0.68

25/11/2016 Purchase 7956 0.00 1440000 0.68

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 1440000 0.68



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 57

Sl. 

No.

Date Type Shareholding at the beginning of the Year Cumulative Shareholding during the Year

No of Shares % of total shares of 

the company

No of Shares % of total shares of 

the company

8 Name: National Insurance Company Ltd

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 664070 0.31

05/02/2016 Sale -15000 -0.01 649070 0.31

12/02/2016 Sale -5000 0.00 644070 0.30

24/06/2016 Sale -10000 0.00 634070 0.30

08/07/2016 Sale -11163 -0.01 622907 0.29

15/07/2016 Sale -38837 -0.02 584070 0.28

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 584070 0.28

9 Name: Reliance Capital Trustee Company Limited A/C Reliance Vision Fund

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 644789 0.30

12/02/2016 Purchase 21211 0.01 666000 0.31

11/03/2016 Purchase 15939 0.01 681939 0.32

29/04/2016 Sale -681939 -0.32 0 0.00

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 0 0.00

10 Name: Abu Dhabi Investment Authority - Jhelum

01/01/2016 Opening Balance 541367 0.26

31/12/2016 Closing Balance 541367 0.26

v. Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel:

Note: None of other Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company hold equity shares of the Company in 

Financial Year 2016.

V. INDEBTEDNESS:

Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding/accrued but not due for payment:

(` in Crore)

Sl No Name of the Director/ Key 

Managerial Personnel

Date Remarks Shareholding at the beginning of 

the year

Cumulative Shareholding during 

the year

No. of Shares % of total Shares 

of the Company

No. of Shares % of total Shares 

of the Company

1 Mr. Darius E. Udwadia 01.01.2016 At the beginning 

of the year

3500 0.002

3500 0.002

31.12.2016 At the end of the 

year

3500 0.002

Secured Loans 

excluding deposits

Unsecured

Loans

Deposits Total

Indebtedness

Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial 

year

i) Principal Amount NIL 600.00 NIL 600.00

ii) Interest due but not paid NIL Nil NIL Nil

iii) Interest accrued but not due NIL 3.56 NIL 3.56

Total (i+ii+iii) NIL 603.56 NIL 603.56

Change in Indebtedness during the financial year

- Addition NIL 24.74 NIL 24.74

- Reduction NIL 25.13 NIL 25.13

Net Change NIL (0.39) NIL (0.39)

Indebtedness at the end of the financial year

i) Principal Amount NIL 600.04 NIL 600.04

ii) Interest due but not paid NIL NIL NIL NIL

iii) Interest accrued but not due NIL 3.13 NIL 3.13

Total (i+ii+iii) NIL 603.17 NIL 603.17



58 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

* Commission for the year 2015 paid in the year 2016 

** Exclusive of sitting fee paid to Independent Directors

VI. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL

A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and/or Manager:

(Amount in `)

B. Remuneration to other Directors:

(Amount in `)

Sl No Particulars of Remuneration Name of MD/WTD/ Manager

1. Name: Mr. Sanjeev Sharma 

2. Gross salary:

(a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 3,22,66,218

(b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 48,96,743

(c) Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 -

3. Stock Option -

4. Sweat Equity -

5. Commission

- as % of profit

- others, specify…

 

- 

-

6. Others (premium for Group Term Life Insurance, Group Personnel Accident 

Insurance, Mediclaim, PF Company contribution and Meal voucher)

28,33,966

7. Total (A) 3,99,96,927

Ceiling as per the Act 28,02,71,300

Sl No Particulars of Remuneration Name of Independent Directors Total

1. Name Mr. Nasser Munjee Mr. Darius E. Udwadia Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad

2. Fee for attending Board / Committee meetings 1,80,000 2,00,000 2,10,000

87,57,857

3. Commission* 21,67,857 27,42,857 32,57,143

4. Others, please specify - - -

Total(1) 23,47,857 29,42,857 34,67,143

Name of Other Non-Executive Directors

1. Name Mr. Frank Duggan Mr. Tarak Mehta

2. Fee for attending Board / Committee meetings - - -

3. Commission* - - -

4. Others, please specify - - -

Total(2) - - -

Total (B)=(1+2) 23,47,857 29,42,857 34,67,143 87,57,857

Total Managerial Remuneration (A + B) ** 4,81,64,784

Overall Ceiling as per the Act 61,65,96,860



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 59

C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than MD / Manager / WTD:

(Amount in `)

Sl No Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel Total

1. Name and Designation Mr. B. Gururaj

(Company Secretary)

Mr. T K Sridhar

(CFO)

2. Gross salary:

(a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the 

Income-tax Act, 1961

92,70,877 1,02,33,891 1,95,04,768

(b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 39,600 39,600 79,200

(c) Profits in lieu of salary u/s 17(3) of the Income Tax Act, 

1961

- - -

3. Stock Option - - -

4. Sweat Equity - - -

5. Commission

- as % of profit

- others, specify

 

- 

-

- 

-

- 

-

6. Others (premium for Group Term Life Insurance, Group 

Personnel Accident Insurance, Mediclaim, PF Company 

contribution and Meal voucher)

8,72,573 10,12,581 18,85,154

Total (C) 1,01,83,050 1,12,86,072 2,14,69,122

VII. PENALTIES / PUNISHMENT / COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES:

During the year under review, no penalty was levied against the Company, its Directors or any of its Officers under the 

Companies Act, 2013 and also there was no punishment or compounding of offences against the Company, its Directors 

or any of its Officers.

 For and on behalf of the Board 

 Frank Duggan

 Chairman

 DIN: 02937233

Place: Mumbai 

Date: March 23, 2017



60 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Annexure - C to Directors’ Report

Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration

The information relating to remuneration of Directors / Key Managerial Personnel as required under Section 197(12) of 

the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 

Rules, 2014.

1. Ratio of the remuneration of each Executive Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company 

for the Financial Year 2016, the percentage increase in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer (MD), Chief Financial 

Officer and Company Secretary during the Financial Year 2016.

2. Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees for the financial year: 11%.

3. Number of permanent employees on rolls of the Company as on December 31, 2016: 5,603

4. Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel in the last 

financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification 

thereof and to point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:

 As per Company’s increment guidelines.

5. Affirmation that the remuneration is as per remuneration policy of the Company: Yes

  

  For and on behalf of the Board

  Frank Duggan

  Chairman

  DIN: 02937233

 

Place: Mumbai 

Date: March 23, 2017

Notes:

a) Percentage of increase in remuneration is effective March 1, 2016.

b) Independent Directors of the Company are entitled for sitting fees and commission as per the Statutory 

Provisions and within the limits approved by the Shareholders. As a Policy, the Non-Executive - Non-Independent 

Directors are neither paid sitting fee nor paid any commission. The details of remuneration of Non-executive 

Directors are provided in the Corporate Governance Report. The ratio of remuneration and percentage increase 

for Non-executive Directors Remuneration is therefore not considered for the above purpose.

c) Appointed as the Managing Director effective January 1, 2016.

Sl No Name of the Director / Key 

Managerial Personnel

Designation Ratio of Remuneration of 

each Director to median 

remuneration of employees

Percentage increase in 

Remuneration

1. Mr. Sanjeev Sharma (refer note c) Managing Director 46:1 NA

2. Mr. T. K. Sridhar Chief Financial Officer 13:1 20.00%

3. Mr. B. Gururaj Company Secretary 12:1 7.99%



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 61

—
Annexure - D to Directors’ Report

Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings 

and outgo.

Pursuant to provisions of Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) 

Rules, 2014

A. Conservation of energy

1. Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:

• Installation of timer based system for lighting in all substation building to reduce the usage of light in day time 

which has resulted in energy saving in terms of power and reduction in maintenance cost.

• Replacement of old air ambiator system in HV machine by new energy efficient air ambiator system which has 

resulted in energy saving due to reduction in motor capacity from 16 KW to 11.5 KW.

• Replacement of old conventional type lighting fixtures by energy efficient LED fixtures in substations 

washrooms, canteen, vehicle parking and street light. We are also ensuring LED light fixture in all upcoming 

new infrastructures.

• Power factor for the year 2016 was maintained at 0.996 by identifying and replacing faulty capacitors, periodic/

preventive maintenance of capacitor banks and installation of new capacitor bank at load centers.

• Replacement of high bay 400 W / 250 W Metal halide conventional light fixtures in SPT factory and Halol factory 

by energy efficient LED light fixtures which has resulted in increase in illumination level in factory area and 

reduction in maintenance cost as well as energy cost.

• Extending AC switches nearer to user area to enable them for switching off the AC units when not in use. 

• The brine circulation pump in resin impregnation plant of WPG factory is replaced with new energy efficient 

pump.

• Introduction of timer circuits in bar bending machine to optimize operation in idle time.

• Replacement of Metal Halide high bay lights and CFL lights with LED Lights at motor shop, production office, 

canteen and warehouse at Faridabad facility.

• Installation of Variable Refrigerant Volume (VRV) systems fan to lower energy consumptions.

• Replacement of old CFL type lighting fixtures by energy efficient LED fixtures in discussion rooms, conference 

rooms, administrative building, training center and also at workshop of Grid Automation, LV Motors at Peenya 

facility 

• Use of Automatic Power Factor correction unit to maintain power factor between 0.97 to 0.99, resulting in 

lower electricity consumption.

• Analyzed use of compressor & changed a scheme to use 100 CFM compressor.

• Arrested compressed air leakages and installed timer valve in apparatus shop

• Diesel consumption reduced by adopting desiccant dehumidifier technology.

• Modification in hot rinse bath tank to avoid evaporation of hot water leads for saving energy.

• Utilisation of STP treated water for gardening.

• AC and AV system settings done as per the ambient temp and load factor.

2. The steps taken by the company for utilising alternate sources of energy:

• Maximum usage of natural day light by introducing Transparent Polycarbonate sheets and Rock/Mineral Puff 

sheet for roof for the heat Insulation in roofs at our various workshops across locations.

• Utilisation of Solar Power to the possible extent (10kW) sink with LT Grid.

• Shop floor selected fixed glass windows converted to openable for fresh ventilation, it’s reduce the power 

consumption at Nelamangala facility

 



62 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

3. The Capital Investment on energy conservation equipments:

• Installation of motion sensors in renovated washrooms, meeting rooms to control power consumption. 

Installation of timer based system for lighting in all substation building to reduce the usage of light in day time 

which has resulted in energy saving in terms of power and reduction in maintenance cost.

• Installation of ABB Make KNX motion sensor technology and inverter based Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) 

HVAC system for energy in our new offices.

• Installation of VFD with Paint booth Blower Motors at Faridabad facility.

• The Mysuru unit has setup a 66 kV line and captive sub-station to ensure uninterrupted power for its facility. 

Switching over from 11 kV to 66kV grid helps in reduction of fossil fuel consumption.

• Energy efficient motors installed in Breakers & Switches factory in Nelamangala.

• MVD testing feeder transfer to separate dedicated feeder in HT Yard.

B. Technology absorption

1. The efforts made towards technology absorption:

• Two New Product Ranges of Conventional Wiring Accessories developed locally (ADIYA & IVIE).

• OVR 27 – Outdoor Vacuum recloser 27 kV – an advanced feeder automation solution to overhead distribution 

system, developed in India and launched.

• 12kV, 25 kA Primary switchgear for distribution Type ZN1 along with its vacuum circuit breaker Type VInd 2000.

• OTDC Local Assembly.

• Distribution Boards (DB’s), packaging improvement done to reduce the transit damages.

• Automation solution of SafeLink CB.

• VD4 – 12.08.20 redesigned for cost optimization.

• ZN1 Power cube modules together with VInd vacuum circuit breaker – a custom built direct use OEM solution.

• ZS2 Switchgear for outdoor.

• RIO600 1.7: New features- Multi frequency Admittance based Earth Fault protection.

• PCM600 2.8: New features - Ethernet Configuration Tool; Easy Goose tool.

• SATEEN 4.9: New features - Improvement related to OMICORN.

• Improvements to ramping, support to check time synchronization, read / control analog & binary statuses.

• FTP test steps update for Tiger relays, support in including SCD files for MAP of 670 relays; RTU – DUT support.

• 800kV Isolators.

• 170kV CVT.

• Mobile Capacitor Bank.

• Introduction of high efficiency conformance LV Motors of 71-132 IE2 series.

• 400-450 frame sizes IE2 and IE3 series.

• Smoke Extraction Motor frames 71-250 IE1, IE2, IE3.

• Wind generators with optimized material.

• Special variants in LV motors in frames 160-250 IE3.

• Design modification and component localization in Motors & Generators, LV Drives, Solar Inverters, Traction 

converters to suit local market needs. 

• Propulsion converters for Indian Railways.

• High Voltage rib cooled motors.

• New Series of low voltage drives.

• Additional features to solar pump drives.

• OVR 38 outdoor vacuum re-closure 38kV.

• Single phase auto recloser (RER605) in collaboration with apparatus team for US market.

• PCM600 2.9 (to support 640 Relion series).

• Electromagnetic Flowmeter with flangeless design for water segment.

• Variable Turbine Geometry (VTG) technology based TPR61-AV10 Turbochargers for Diesel locomotives.

• Internet of things bundling with core sector offerings, metering skids, CPM Solutions.

• Improved version of STATCON.

• Grading Capacitors for breakers.

• Polymer insulator for Instrument transformers.

• Design improvement in ITs, Fiber optic communication products and PLCCs.

• Type test of IED 670s as part of Digital substation offerings.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 63

2. The benefits derived as a result of technology absorption:

 Benefits have been reflected in terms of improvement of product reliability and quality, standardization of various 

products, improved product variants, introduction of new product lines, better aesthetics, meeting specific 

customer requirements, improved measurement range and accuracy level, cost reduction, reduction in carbon 

emission and increased acceptability products in local and global markets.

 

3. Technologies imported during the last three years

• Combiflex, range of measurement relays    2014

• Combliflex Test switch RTXP     2014

• Adaptation of IE1,2 and IE3 design & Wind Generators  2014

• TTF200 a temperature transmitter     2014

• HART based Pressure transmitter PT266-L9    2014

• NXR Motors technology      2015

• IEC 61850 based GOOSE communication implementation for  

tele Protection with NSD 570     2015

• Relion 670 2.0 version       2015

• 36kV RMU (Safe Ring, Safe Plus) Structure    2015

• 145kV GIS       2015

• DC Capacitors       2015

• Active Harmonic filter      2015

• Tmax XT MCCB       2016

• OTDC Local assembly      2016

• 145kVGIS       2016

• New generation of LV ACS 880 Drives    2016

 All technologies are fully absorbed.

4. The expenditure incurred on Research and Development:

 Considering the nature of research and development, complexity, competency required, time frame, amount and 

also to optimize overall cost, all major R&D efforts are pooled centrally at the Group level. Certain development 

activities were carried out by the Company and have been billed to the central technology center. The expenditure 

had been mainly in the nature of payment of license fee for use of technology knowhow reported as royalty and 

technology fees under other expenses. Local R&D activities undertaken by the Company were mainly in localizing 

the products, adoption of global products to local environment, carrying out cost saving actions and other 

improvements.

C. Foreign exchange earnings and outgo 

 Total foreign exchange used and earned

          (` in Crores)

       2016   2015

 (i)  Foreign Exchange earned 1,297.5 1,066.2

 (ii)  Foreign exchange used 2,975.3 2,691.1

   For and on behalf of the Board

         

  Frank Duggan

 Chairman

 DIN: 02937233

Place: Mumbai 

Date: March 23, 2017 



64 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Annexure - E to Directors’ Report

ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES (CSR) ACTIVITIES

1. Brief outline of the Company’s CSR policy including overview of projects or programs proposed to be undertaken 

and a reference to the web-link to the CSR policy and projects or programs.

 CSR policy: 

 “ABB India views corporate social responsibility as another channel to further its cause of ‘Power and productivity 

for a better world’. The Company is committed to sustainable and inclusive development of the community’s social 

capital through active engagement”.

 The main focal areas of the Company’s CSR contribution and activities are:

• Education and skill development: To provide facilities and assist promotion of primary education among 

children and impart skills training to the youth.

• Access to electricity: Collaborating to provide innovative off-grid solutions to provide and improve access to 

electricity in the country

• Health: To support and augment ongoing national initiatives on health, hygiene and health care systems

• Environment and local safeguard: To undertake greening and environmental initiatives in the community

• Differently abled: To catalyze skills training and employment opportunities for the differently abled

 ABB India Corporate Social Responsibility Policy:

 http://new.abb.com/indian-subcontinent/investors/corporate-governance/india-corporate-social-responsibility

 Some of key CSR projects of the Company in the year includes:

• Development of a solar energy based Village Micro Grid (VMG) for rural electrification, for affordable and 

continuous power availability in a rural area in partnership with a premium research institution

• Rural development by improving accessibility through road infrastructure

• Contribution to mid-day meal scheme to select Govt schools in Karnataka and Gujarat

• Promotion of primary education among children in select villages and impart skills training to women in Gujarat

• Contribution towards running a special school to mainstream children with disability in Bengaluru

2. Composition of the CSR Committee

 Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad – Chairperson - Non-executive Director (Independent)

 Mr. Sanjeev Sharma – Member - Managing Director 

 Mr. Tarak Mehta – Member - Non-executive Director 

 The Committee met 4 (four) times during the year under review.

3. Average net profit of the Company for the last three financial years

 Average net profit: ` 374.44 Crores

4. Prescribed CSR expenditure (2% of the average net profit of the last three financial years)

 The Company during the financial year 2016 is required to spend ` 7.49 Crore towards CSR.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 65

5. Details of CSR spent during the financial year:

 The Company is required to spend ` 7.49 Crore against which, the Company had spent ` 7.41 Crore on various CSR 

projects. Details of amount spent during the financial year are given below: 

(Amount in `)

Sl No CSR project or activity identified Sector in which the 
project is covered

Project or programs Amount Spent on the 
project or programs

Cumulative 
Expenditure 
Upto 
Reporting 
period

Amount spent: 
Direct or through 
implementing 
Agency

(1) Local area or other (1) Direct expenditure 
on Project or 
programs

(2) State and 
District where 
Project or programs 
implemented

(2) Overheads

1 Community greening -Tree plantation Environmental 
sustainability

Maharashtra, Nashik 83,500 83,500 Direct 
implementation

2 Road safety programme at Company’s 
supported Govt school

Promoting Education Maharashtra, Nashik 9,306 9,305 Direct 
implementation

3 Improving energy efficiency - 
Replacement with energy efficiency 
lights at a NGO supporting destitute 
and orphans 

Differently abled Karnataka, Bengaluru 343,900 343,900 Direct 
implementation

4 Contributing to a multipurpose vehicle 
for a destitute home

Differently abled Karnataka, Bengaluru 632,442 632,442 Direct 
implementation

5 Infrastructure upgradation at ABB 
supported Govt school

Promoting Education Karnataka, Bengaluru 295,230 289,637 Direct 
implementation

6 Contribution to road safety awareness 
programs for school children

Promoting Education Maharashtra, Nashik 2,500,000 2,500,000 Through 
implementing 
agency

7 Sponsoring mid-day meals for children 
of identified Government schools 

Eradicating hunger 
and promoting 
education

Bengaluru, Karnataka, 
& Gujarat, Vadodara

9,949,750 9,949,750 Through 
implementing 
agency

8 Individual solar based home lighting 
system as a part of remote rural 
electrification

Rural development Rajasthan, Barmer 2,210,000 2,210,000 Direct 
implementation

9 Water shed management in drought 
prone villages of Nashik

Rural development Maharashtra, Nashik 3,100,315 3,100,315 Direct 
implementation

10 Contribution towards operative and 
post-operative care for 100 children 
with cleft lip and palate cases across 
chosen locations in India

Promoting Health 
Care
Reducing child 
mortality and 
improving health

Gujarat (Ahmedabad, 
Surat), Maharashtra 
(Mumbai, Pune) and 
Karnataka (Bengaluru, 
Mysuru, Coorg and 
Mangaluru) 

1,350,000 1,350,000 Through 
implementing 
agency

11 Improving the quality of education for 
around 100 primary and middle Govt 
schools covering around 9000 students 
from poor socioeconomic background 
in Nelamangala (Bengaluru)

Promoting education 
and rural development

Karnataka, Bengaluru, 1,227,941 1,227,941 Through 
implementing 
agency

12 Survey and design study for village 
road upgradation project

Needs assessment for 
rural development

Karnataka, Bengaluru, 126,500 115,500 Through 
implementing 
agency

13 Education programme for adolescent 
girls and boys for select village of 
Gujarat and vocational training and 
skill development program for women, 
Gujarat 

Promoting education, 
vocational skills and 
rural development

Gujarat, Patan 3,600,000 3,600,000 Through 
implementing 
agency

14 Infrastructure upgradation at ABB 
supported Govt school

Promoting education Karnataka, Bengaluru, 558,482 558,482 Direct 
implementation

15 Contribution towards running a special 
school to mainstream children with 
disability

Promoting education 
for differently abled

Karnataka, Bengaluru 2,592,831 2,592,831 Through 
implementing 
agency

16 Community needs assessment and 
village development plan at 2 select 
villages

Needs assessment for 
rural development

Karnataka, Mysuru, 
and Nelamangala

431,252  431,252 Through 
implementing 
agency

17 R&D cooperation through joint studies, 
projects in the area renewable energy 
and storage

Research and 
Development 
for sustainable 
development

Not Applicable 4,290,000 4,290,000 Direct 
implementation

18 Development of a solar energy based 
Village Micro Grid (VMG) for rural 
electrification, for affordable and 
continuous power availability in a rural 
area

Rural development  Jharkhand, Ranchi 3,000,000 3,000,000 Through 
implementing 
agency

19 Community health camp for local 
community 

Preventive health care Karnataka, Bengaluru 450,201 450,201 Through 
implementing 
agency

20 Road upgradation project for 
improving accessibility to villages 

Rural development Karnataka, Bengaluru 35,000,000 35,000,000 Direct 
implementation

21 Health awareness programme Preventive health care Maharashtra, 
Karnataka 

2,300,000 2,300,000 Direct 
implementation

Total 74,051,650 



66 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

6. Reasons for not spending 2% of the average net profit of the last three financial years

 During the year the Company has spent ` 7.41 Crores as against the requirement of ` 7.49 Crores. The Company was 

able to fulfil the substantial portion of the required expenditure. Further the Company is in the process of identifying 

needy beneficiaries / communities and also partnering with agencies for its various upcoming project 

implementation. Activities were taken up to the extent possible so that the Company achieves maximum contribution 

towards its social commitment.

7. Responsibility Statement by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee:

 The implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy, is in compliance with CSR objectives and policy of the 

Company.

 Renu Sud Karnad Sanjeev Sharma

 Chairperson – CSR Committee Managing Director

 DIN: 00008064 DIN: 07362344 

Place: Mumbai 

Date: March 23, 2017



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 67

—

Annexure - G to Directors’ Report

Report on Corporate Governance

1. Corporate Governance Philosophy

 The Company is committed to good Corporate Governance. The Company fully realises the rights of its shareholders 

to information on the performance of the Company and considers itself a trustee of its shareholders. The Company 

provides detailed information on various issues concerning the Company’s business and financial performance to 

its shareholders. The basic philosophy of Corporate Governance in the Company is to achieve business excellence 

and dedicate itself for increasing long-term shareholder value, keeping in view the needs and interests of all its 

stakeholders. The Company is committed to transparency in all its dealings and places emphasis on business ethics.

2. Board of Directors

 The Board consists 6 Directors viz., three Independent and three Non-Independent, out of which, one Independent 

Director is a woman Director. Out of three Non-Independent Directors, one is a Managing Director, which is in 

conformity with the requirement of Regulation 17 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 

and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations). The Chairman of the Board is a Non-Executive 

and Non-Independent Director.

 Except the Managing Director two other Non–Executive Non-Independent Directors are liable to retire by rotation. 

In the ensuing Annual General Meeting, a Non–Executive Non-Independent Director is getting re-appointed. There 

is no relationship between the Directors inter-se. All the Independent Directors are appointed for the period of five 

years i.e. up to May 5, 2020.

(i) Composition/ Category of Directors/ Attendance at Meetings/ Directorships and Committee Memberships in 

other companies as on December 31, 2016 

Name Category(1) Attendance Directorship in 

other Indian

companies(2)

Committee Membership 

/ Chairmanship 

in Public Companies(3)

Board 

meetings 

held during 

2016

Board 

Meetings 

Attended

Last AGM 

attendance

Member Chairman

Mr Frank Duggan (Chairman) NED

4*

4 Yes Nil Nil Nil

Mr Sanjeev Sharma(4) MD 4 Yes 2 1 Nil

Mr Nasser Munjee NED (I) 4 Yes 10 1 5

Mr Darius E. Udwadia NED (I) 4 Yes 13 7 1

Mrs Renu Sud Karnad NED (I) 2 No 10 6 1

Mr Tarak Mehta NED 3 Yes Nil Nil Nil

(1) Category: NED – Non-executive Director, MD – Managing Director, 

 NED (I) – Non-executive Director and Independent.

(2) Includes directorships in private limited companies and Section 8 (Not for profit) companies. None of the 

Directors of the Company hold independent directorships in more than 7 listed companies. 

(3) Includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee of public limited companies. None of 

the Directors on the Board is a Member of more than 10 Committees and Chairman of more than 5 Committees 

across all companies in which they are Directors. 

(4) Mr Sanjeev Sharma was appointed as the Managing Director w.e.f. 01.01.2016.

* In addition, one meeting of Independent Directors was held during the year.

NOTE: All Independent Directors fulfill the requirements stipulated in Regulation 25 (1) of the Listing Regulations.



68 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(ii) No. of Board Meetings held in the Financial Year 2016 and dates on which held 

 The Board has held four meetings during the Financial Year 2016 i.e., on February 4, April 25, July 21, and 

October 27, 2016. 

 In addition one meeting of Independent Directors was held on October 27, 2016.

(iii) Except Mr. Darius E. Udwadia, who is holding 3,500 equity shares, no other Director holds equity shares in the 

Company.

(iv) The Independent Directors, who are from diverse fields of expertise and have long standing experience and 

expert knowledge in their respective fields are very relevant as well as of considerable value for the Company’s 

business. As a part of familiarization programme as required under Listing Regulations, the Directors have 

been appraised during the Board Meetings about the amendments to the various enactments viz., Companies 

Act, 2013 (the Act) and Listing Regulations. Since these being an information about the enactment / updates 

in the laws / regulation, no separate material has been uploaded in the website.

 Further it is informed that the familiarization programmes for Independent Directors as required under the 

Listing Regulations is being undertaken from time to time. Details of such programmes will be updated on the 

Company’s website at www.abb.co.in.

(v) The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent Directors are disclosed in the Company’s website 

at www.abb.co.in.

(vi) During the year, a separate meeting of the Independent Directors was held on October 27, 2016, without the 

presence of Non-Executive Directors / Managing Director / Management to discuss the matter as required / 

agreed amongst them.

(vii) Further the Board periodically reviews the compliance reports submitted by the management in respect of all 

laws applicable to the Company.

3. Audit Committee

(i) Terms of Reference

 The Audit Committee acts on the terms of reference given by the Board pursuant to Section 177 of the Act and 

Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations.

The terms of reference are briefly described below:

• Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure 

that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible;

• Recommending the Board, appointment, re-appointment, replacement or removal (in the event of necessity) 

of Statutory Auditors, Cost Auditors and / or any other auditors including fixation of remuneration;

• Approval of payment to Statutory Auditors for any other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors;

• Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval, 

with particular reference to:

a) matters required to be included in the Director’s Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s 

report in terms of sub- section (5) of Section 134 of the Act;

b) changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same;

c) major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management;

d) significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings;

e) compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements;

f) disclosure of any related party transactions; and

g) qualifications in the draft audit report.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 69

• Reviewing, with the management:

• the quarterly financial statements before submission to the Board for approval;

• performance of Auditors, Internal Auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems;

• review and monitor the auditor’s independence and performance and effectiveness of audit process;

• review the adequacy of Internal Audit function including the structure of the internal audit department, staffing 

and seniority of the head of the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit;

• approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with the related parties;

• approval on appointment of Chief Financial Officer including the Whole time Director- Finance or any other 

person heading the finance function or discharging that function after assessing the qualification, experience 

and background etc., of such incumbent;

• reviewing the proposal for discontinuation / closure of any of the business operations of the Company;

• scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;

• valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary;

• monitoring the end use of funds raised through public offers and related matters;

• review proposal for mergers, demergers, acquisitions, carve-outs, sale, transfer of business and its valuation 

report and fairness opinion, if any, thereof;

• evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems;

• discussing with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up there on;

• reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is 

suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the 

matter to the Board;

• discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well 

as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern;

• to look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 

shareholders (in case of non- payment of declared dividends) and creditors;

• review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism.

• carry out such other function as may be delegated by the Board from time to time.

• review various investment proposals before the same is submitted to the Board of Directors and also to review 

the guidelines for investing surplus funds of the Company;

• to appoint valuers for the valuation of the undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary 

including stocks, shares, securities, goodwill or any other assets or net worth of a Company or liability of the 

Company under the provisions of the Act.

In addition to the above, the following items will be reviewed by the Audit Committee:

• management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations;

• statement of significant related party transactions, (as defined by the Audit Committee) submitted by 

management;

• management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors;

• internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; and 

• appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor. 

The Audit Committee is vested with the necessary powers to achieve its objectives.

 The Committee has discharged such other role/function as envisaged under Regulation 18 (3) read with Part C of 

Schedule II of the Listing Regulations and the provisions of Section 177 of the Act.

 The Chairman of the Audit Committee was present at the last (66th) Annual General Meeting held on April 26, 2016.



70 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(ii) Composition, name of members & Chairperson, meetings held during the year and attendance at meetings

 The Audit Committee presently consists of four Non-Executive Directors, out of which three are Independent 

Directors. The Committee has held four meetings during the Financial Year 2016 i.e., on February 3, April 25, 

July 21 and October 27, 2016. The composition of the Audit Committee as on December 31, 2016 and the 

attendance of members at the meetings held during the Financial Year 2016 were as follows:

4. Nomination and Remuneration Committee

(i) Terms of Reference

 The terms of reference and Role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee are as per the provisions of 

Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations which includes formulating the criteria to:

• Determine qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend to the Board 

a policy, relating to the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel and other employees;

• Evaluation of Independent Directors and the Board;

• Devising a policy on Board diversity;

• Identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management 

in accordance with the criteria laid down, and recommend to the Board their appointment and removal.

• Recommending to the Board on remuneration, Performance Bonus etc., payable to the Executive Director(s) 

/ Managing Director, Commission payable to Independent Directors.

 The policy is framed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board. The terms 

and conditions of appointment are disclosed in the website of the Company at www.abb.co.in.

(ii) Composition, name of members & Chairperson, meetings held during the year and attendance at meetings.

 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee presently consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two being 

independent. The Chairman is a Non-Executive and Independent Director. The Committee has held one meeting 

during the Financial Year 2016 i.e., on February 3, 2016. The composition of the Nomination and Remuneration 

Committee as on December 31, 2016 and the attendance of members at the meeting held during the Financial 

Year 2016 were as follows:

 Mr. B Gururaj, Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Audit Committee.

Members of the Committee No. of meetings attended

Mr. Nasser Munjee (Chairman) (Independent Director) 4

Mr. Darius E. Udwadia (Independent Director) 4

Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad (Independent Director) 4

Mr. Tarak Mehta 3

Members of the Committee No. of meetings attended

Mr. Nasser Munjee (Chairman) (Independent Director) 1

Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad (Independent Director) 1

Mr. Frank Duggan 1



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 71

(iii) Remuneration Policy / Criteria for payments to Directors / Senior Management Employees

 The Company has a credible and transparent policy in determining and accounting for the remuneration of the 

Executive/ Non-Executive Independent Directors. Independent Directors’ remuneration is governed by the 

external competitive environment, track record of the individuals, effective participation in the meetings, 

comparable industry standards and performance of the Company. The remuneration determined for the 

Executive/Independent Directors is subject to the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 

Committee and approval of the Board of Directors.

 The Board and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee also reviewed the performance of the Board on 

the basis of the criteria such as the contribution of the individual director to the Board and Committee 

meetings like preparedness on the issues to be discussed, meaningful and constructive contribution and 

inputs in meetings, etc. In addition, the Chairman was also evaluated on the key aspects of his role.

 The Non-Executive Independent Directors are compensated by way of a profit-sharing commission and the 

criteria being their attendance in the Board/ Committee Meetings.

 As a policy, the Non-Executive - Non-Independent Directors are neither paid sitting fee nor paid any commission.

 The Independent Directors are entitled to sitting fees for attending the Board / Committee Meetings. Sitting 

fees for Board and Audit Committee Meetings is ̀  20,000/- per Director per meeting and for other Committees, 

viz., Corporate Social Responsibility, Stakeholders Relationship, Nomination and Remuneration and Risk 

Management the sitting fees is ` 10,000/- per Director per meeting.

 The remuneration payable to the Managing Director and Senior Management personnel including KMP are 

structured as fixed and variable components. The fixed remuneration comprises salaries, perquisites and 

retirement benefits and the variable component comprises annual performance bonus which is linked to the 

achievement of the score card fixed at beginning of the year.

 5. Details of remuneration to all the Directors paid during the Financial Year 2016 

(` in Lakh)

 * Commission / Bonus for the year 2015 paid during the year 2016.

Commission to Independent Directors:

1. For Board Meetings: a fixed amount of ` 25 lakh per Independent Director based on 100% participation by way 

of attendance in the meetings.

2. For Committee Meetings: a fixed amount of ` 3 lakh per Independent Director based on 100% participation by 

way of attendance in the meetings.

3. For Chairman of the Audit Committee: a fixed amount of ` 8 lakh for 100% participation by way of attendance 

in the meetings.

 The above commission payable to Independent Directors of the Company shall however will not exceed in the 

aggregate 1% per annum of the net profits of the Company computed in the manner laid down in the Act. The Board 

authorizes the Chairman to determine the amount payable to the eligible Independent Director based on the profits 

earned by the Company for the respective year.

Name Sitting Fees Salary & 

Perquisites

Commission / 

Bonus (*)

Stock Option Pension

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma Nil 399.97 Nil Nil Nil

Mr. Nasser Munjee 1.80 Nil 21.68 Nil Nil

Mr. Darius E. Udwadia 2.00 Nil 27.43 Nil Nil

Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad 2.10 Nil 32.57 Nil Nil

Mr. Frank Duggan Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil

Mr. Tarak Mehta Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil



72 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

 Fixed Component / Performance Linked Incentive / Criteria

 Performance related Bonus is payable to the Managing Director only as per the terms of Contract entered into 

between the Company and the Managing Director.

 Service Contract / Notice Period / Severance Fees

a) The Contract of Service entered into by the Company with Mr. Sanjeev Sharma, Managing Director, provides 

that the Company and the Managing Director shall be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving 90 days’ 

notice in writing on either side.

b) No severance fee is payable by the Company to the Managing Director on termination of the agreement/s.

Stock Option

The Company is not having stock option scheme therefore the same is not applicable.

 Except Mr. Darius E. Udwadia, who is holding 3,500 equity shares, no other Director holds equity shares in the 

Company. There are no convertible instruments issued by the Company.

 None of the Non-Executive Directors has any pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company except with 

the (a) law firm where Mr. Darius E. Udwadia is a partner and (b) Company where Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad is Director.

(a) The Company has paid ` 1,29,170/- to the law firm, as fees for professional services that were provided by the 

firm to the Company on specific legal matters entrusted by the Company to it for legal advice where  

Mr. Udwadia, Director is a Proprietor. The Board does not consider the law firm’s association with the Company 

to be of a material nature so as to affect independence of judgment of Mr. Udwadia as a Director of the 

Company.

(b) Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad, who is also a Director on the Board of Lafarge India Private Limited with which the 

Company is having a business relationship viz., purchase and sale of goods/ equipment, turnkey projects, 

license of software etc., as normal business transactions, for more than a decade. The Purchases and Sales 

including the orders released and received during year is ` 1,57,86,257/-. All the transactions have been carried 

out purely based on market conditions at prevailing market price / conditions. The Board does not consider 

the business association between Lafarge and the Company to be of a material nature so as to affect 

independence of judgment of Mrs. Karnad as a Director of the Company. Mrs. Karnad, ceased to be Director on 

the Board of Lafarge India Private Limited effective June 3, 2016.

6. Stakeholders Relationship Committee

 The said Committee has been authorized to approve the transfer/transmission/ transposition of shares and issue 

of duplicate share certificates.

 In order to expedite the process, the Board of Directors has also delegated the authority severally to the Managing 

Director and the Company Secretary to approve the share transfers/transmissions and accordingly, the Managing 

Director or the Company Secretary approve the transfer/transmission of shares as and when required from time to 

time.

 Four meetings of Committee were held during the Financial Year 2016 i.e., on February 3, April 25, July 21 and October 

27, 2016.

 The Committee is chaired by Mr. Darius E. Udwadia – Independent Director. Mr. B Gururaj – Company Secretary is the 

Compliance Officer.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 73

 The composition of Stakeholders Relationship Committee as at December 31, 2016 and attendance of members at 

the meetings held during the Financial Year 2016 were as follows:

 Except certain cases pending in Courts / Consumer Forums relating to disputes over the title of shares, in which 

either the Company has been made a party or necessary intimation thereof has been received by the Company, all 

the investor grievances / correspondences have been promptly attended to from the date of their receipt. Continuous 

efforts are made to ensure that grievances are more expeditiously redressed to the complete satisfaction of the 

investors.

 The details of investors’ complaints received and resolved during the Financial Year 2016 are as under:

7. Risk Management

 The Company has in place a mechanism to inform Board Members about the risk assessment and minimization 

procedures and periodical review to ensure that executive management controls risks by means of a properly 

defined frame work. The Company has formulated a Policy on Risk Management and constituted a Risk Management 

Committee.

 One meeting of the Committee was held during the Financial Year 2016 i.e., on October 27, 2016.

 The Committee is chaired by Mr. Nasser Munjee – Independent Director. Mr. B. Gururaj, Company Secretary is the 

Secretary to the Risk Management Committee.

 The composition of the Risk Management Committee as on December 31, 2016 and the attendance of members at 

the meeting held during the Financial Year 2016 were as follows:

8. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee

 Pursuant to Section 135 of the Act a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Board has been 

constituted.

 Four meetings of Committee were held during the Financial Year 2016 i.e., on February 3, April 25, July 21 and October 

27, 2016.

 The Committee is chaired by Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad – Independent Director. The composition of Committee as at 

December 31, 2016 and attendance of members at the meetings held during the Financial Year 2016 were as follows:

Members of the Committee No. of meetings attended

Mr. Darius E. Udwadia (Chairman) (Independent Director) 4

Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad (Independent Director) 4

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma (w.e.f. 01.01.2016) 4

Members of the Committee No. of meetings attended

Mr. Nasser Munjee (Chairman) (Independent Director) 1

Mr. Frank Duggan 0

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma (w.e.f. 01.01.2016) 1

Mr. T. K. Sridhar 1

Mr. Pitamber Shivnani 0

Members of the Committee No. of meetings attended

Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad (Chairperson) (Independent Director) 4

Mr. Sanjeev Sharma (w.e.f. 01.01.2016) 4

Mr. Tarak Mehta 3

No. of investors’ complaints received 

during 2016

No. of investors’ complaints resolved during 

2016

Investors’ complaints pending at the end of 

2016

401 401 NIL



74 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

 The Company has formulated a Policy for its CSR and also identified the following key areas for undertaking CSR 

activities:

• Education and skills enhancement: To provide facilities and assist promotion of primary education among 

children and impart skills training to the youth;

• Health care: To support and augment ongoing national initiatives in health, hygiene and health care systems;

• Environment and local safeguard: To undertake greening and environmental initiatives in the community;

• Differently-abled: To catalyze skills training and employment opportunities for the differently abled;

• Access to electricity: Collaborating to provide innovative off-grid solutions to improve access to electricity in 

the country. 

The Company’s CSR policy may be viewed in the Company’s website at www.abb.co.in.

9. Subsidiary Company

 As the Company has no Subsidiary as on date, the requirement of formulating a specific policy on dealing with 

material subsidiaries does not arise.

10. Managing Director (MD) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certification

 As required under Regulation 17 read with Part B of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, the MD and CFO certification 

on the Financial Statements, the Cash Flow Statement and the Internal Control Systems for financial reporting has 

been obtained from Mr. Sanjeev Sharma, Managing Director and Mr. T. K. Sridhar, Chief Financial Officer. The said 

certificate is part of the Annual Report.

11. General Body Meetings

 (i) Location and time where last three Annual General Meetings (AGMs) held

(ii) Special Resolution passed in the previous three Annual General Meetings

 No Special Resolution passed in 64th to 66th Annual General Meetings held on May 5, 2014, May 6, 2015 and 

April 26, 2016 respectively.

(iii) Postal Ballot

 During the year 2016, the Company has not carried out any Postal ballot. As on date, the Company does not 

have any proposal to pass any Special Resolution by way of Postal ballot.

12. Disclosures

(i) Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions.

 There was no materially significant related party transaction during the year having potential conflict with the 

interests of the Company. Transactions with related parties, as per requirements of Accounting Standard 18, 

are disclosed in the notes to accounts annexed to the financial statements. Further the Company has not 

entered into any transaction of a material nature with the Promoters, subsidiaries of Promoters, Directors or 

their relatives etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of the Company.

 All the transactions with related parties were in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis. In 

terms of Regulation 23 of Listing Regulations the Company started obtaining prior approval of the Audit 

Committee for entering into any transaction with related parties. The Audit Committee granted omnibus 

approval for certain transactions to be entered into with the related parties, during the year.

For the Year Venue Day & Date Time

2015 “Grand Ball Room”, Second floor, Sheraton Bangalore Hotel at 

Brigade Gateway, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road,

Malleshwaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru – 560 055

Tuesday

April 26, 2016

11.00 a.m. (IST)

2014 “Grand Ball Room”, Second floor, Sheraton Bangalore Hotel at 

Brigade Gateway, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road,

Malleshwaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru – 560 055

Monday

May 6, 2015

11.00 a.m. (IST)

2013 “Grand Ball Room”, Second floor, Sheraton Bangalore Hotel at 

Brigade Gateway, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road,

Malleshwaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru – 560 055

Monday

May 5, 2014

11:00 a.m. (IST)



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 75

 Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions can be viewed in the Company’s website. Link for the same 

is http://new.abb.com/docs/librariesprovider19/default-document-library/related-party-transaction-policy.

pdf?sfvrsn=2.

(ii) Details of non-compliance by the Company, penalties and strictures imposed on the Company by the Stock 

Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authorities or any matter related to capital markets during the last three 

years.

 As advised by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) during December 2014, the Company filed an application for 

compounding the alleged contravention in following the pricing guidelines issued under FEMA, when it 

transferred 2,80,500 equity shares of Integra Hindustan Controls Limited to the other Promoter viz., Integra 

Holdings, Switzerland, as promoters’ inter se transfer. Accepting the Company’s Compounding Application, 

the RBI directed the Company to pay a sum of ` 2,87,500/- towards compounding fee to conclude the issue. 

Accordingly, the Company paid the said compounding fee during June 2015 and the issue has since been 

resolved.

 Except the above neither any penalty nor any stricture has been passed by SEBI, Stock Exchanges or any other 

Statutory Authority on matters relating to capital markets, in the last three years.

(iii) Whistle Blower Policy and affirmation that no personnel have been denied access to the Audit Committee.

 The Company has adopted Whistle Blower Policy where it has a mechanism for directors and employees to 

report concerns about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Code of Conduct/

Business Ethics. No personnel have been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, for making 

complaint on any Integrity issue.

(iv) Details of compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory requirements under 

the Listing Regulations.

 During the year, the Company has fully complied with the mandatory requirements as stipulated in Listing 

Regulations.

 The Company has adopted C, D & E of the Non-Mandatory requirements as provided in Part E of Schedule II to 

the Listing Regulations and not adopted A & B since they are discretionary requirements.

13. Means of Communication

 Quarterly Financial Results / Official News Releases

 The quarterly / half-yearly / annual financial results are published in Business Standard / Financial Express / Business 

Line (English Daily) and Vijaya Karnataka (Kannada Daily).

 The financial results and the official news releases are also placed on the Company’s website at www.abb.co.in. The 

Company has a dedicated help desk with e-mail ID: investor.helpdesk@in.abb.com in the Secretarial Department 

for providing necessary information to the investors.

 In addition to the above, after announcement of results, the Company holds conference call with financial analysts. 

The transcript of the said concall is uploaded on the Company’s website at www.abb.co.in.

14. General Shareholder Information

(i) Annual General Meeting Day, Date, Time and Venue:

 The Company will be holding its 67th Annual General Meeting on Tuesday, May 9, 2017 at 11.00 a.m. (IST) at 

“Grand Ball Room”, Second Floor, Sheraton Bangalore Hotel at Brigade Gateway, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, 

Malleshwaram - Rajajinagar, Bengaluru – 560 055.



76 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

 Agenda:

 Item No. 1 – Adoption of Financial Statements and Reports of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon - To 

receive, consider and adopt the financial statements, namely, (i) the Audited Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2016, 

(ii) the Audited Profit & Loss Account for the year ended on that date, (iii) the Cash Flow Statement for the financial 

year ended on that date, (iv) statement of changes in Equity, if any, (v) an Explanatory Note annexed to, or forming 

part of, the documents referred to in (i) to (iv) above and the Reports of Board of Directors and the Auditors 

thereon.

  Item No. 2 – Declaration of Dividend.

  Item No. 3 – Appointment of a Director.

 Item No. 4 – To appoint Statutory Auditors and to authorize the Board of Directors to determine their remuneration.

  Item No. 5 – Commission to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.

  Item No. 6 – Ratification of remuneration to the Cost Auditor of the Company for Financial Year 2017.

  Item No. 7 – Alteration of the Objects Clause of the Memorandum of Association of the Company.

  Item No. 8 – To consider adoption of new set of Articles of Association of the Company.

(ii) Profile of Director seeking re-appointment

 The profile of Director retiring by rotation and seeking re-appointment at the ensuing Annual General Meeting is 

given in the annexure to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.

 Said Director is not related to any other Director on the Board of the Company and Promoters of the Company.

(iii) Financial Year

 Company’s financial year is January – December. The Indicative calendar of events for the year 2017 (January - 

December) excluding Extra Ordinary General Meeting(s), if any, are as under:

 In terms of the circular issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, as a Green Initiative and subsequent amendment 

to the Listing Regulations, soft copy of the Notice and the Annual Report for the financial year 2016 have been 

circulated to the respective e-mail IDs registered and available in Company’s records.

(iv) Date of Book Closure

 The Company’s Register of Members and Share Transfer Books will remain closed for the purpose of payment of 

dividend from May 3, 2017 to May 9, 2017 (both days inclusive).

(v) Dividend Payment Date

 The dividend, as recommended by the Board of Directors, if declared at the ensuing Annual General Meeting will 

be paid on and from May 11, 2017, to those shareholders whose names appear on the Company’s Register of 

Members as on May 2, 2017.

Fourth Quarter Financial Results (Year 2016) February 2017

First Quarter Financial Results May 2017

Annual General Meeting May 2017

Second Quarter Financial Results July 2017

Third Quarter Financial Results October 2017



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 77

Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares 

in the suspense account lying at the beginning of the year.

6 shareholders and 

3,996 equity shares

Number of shareholders who approached issuer for transfer of 

shares from suspense account during the year.

Nil

Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from 

suspense account during the year.

Nil

Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares 

in the suspense account lying at the end of the year.

6 shareholders and 

3,996 equity shares

(vi) Listing on Stock Exchanges

 The equity shares of the Company are currently listed with National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and 

BSE Limited (BSE). The Company has paid till date, appropriate listing fee to both the stock exchanges. Non-

Convertible Debentures of the Company are listed with BSE Limited (BSE).

 Pursuant to the Regulation 39 (4) read with Schedule VI of the Listing Regulations, the Company’s Registrar & 

Share Transfer Agents have already sent three reminders to those shareholders whose share certificates were 

returned undelivered and remain unclaimed so far. Further, as required, the Company has transferred the said 

unclaimed shares to one folio in the name of “ABB India Limited-Unclaimed Suspense Account”, and the voting 

rights thereon have been frozen till the shares are claimed by the rightful owners. Details are given below:

(vii) Stock Code

 Equity Shares:

 NSE ABB

 BSE 500002

 ISIN INE117A01022

 Debentures:

 BSE 952706

 ISIN INE117A08019

(viii) Market Price Data

 The market price data and volume of the Company’s shares traded in the BSE Limited and the National Stock 

Exchange of India Limited, during the year 2016 were as follows:

Year 2016 BSE (`) BSE Sensex NSE (`) NSE Nifty

High Low High Low High Low High Low

January 1,155.00 963.05 26,197.27 23,839.76 1,135.35 955.20 7,972.55 7,241.50

February 1,192.00 975.00 25,002.32 22,494.61 1,198.00 974.80 7,600.45 6,825.80

March 1,295.15 1,014.25 25,479.62 23,133.18 1,296.80 1,015.20 7,777.60 7,035.10

April 1,432.70 1,240.60 26,100.54 24,523.20 1,434.00 1,236.10 7,992.00 7,516.85

May 1,318.25 1,185.00 26,837.20 25,057.93 1,320.00 1,185.40 8,213.60 7678.35

June 1,254.85 1,182.75 27,105.41 25,911.33 1,254.50 1,178.90 8,308.15 7,927.05

July 1,322.10 1,195.55 28,240.20 27,034.14 1,324.00 1,204.00 8,674.70 8,287.55

August 1,282.00 1,141.00 28,532.25 27,627.97 1,280.05 1,141.15 8,819.20 8,518.15

September 1,203.10 1,109.55 29,077.28 27,716.78 1,199.85 1,107.00 8,968.70 8,555.20

October 1,189.00 1,032.40 28,477.65 27,488.30 1,187.95 1,031.50 8,806.95 8,506.15

November 1,122.00 950.00 28,029.80 25,717.93 1,123.70 931.35 8,669.60 7,916.40

December 1,080.00 1,017.20 26,803.76 25,753.74 1,080.00 1,017.55 8,274.95 7,893.80



78 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(ix) Performance in comparison to broad-based indices viz., BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty

ABB Share Price movement v/s BSE Sensex
January – December 2016

ABB Share Price movement v/s NSE Nifty
January – December 2016

 18,000

 19,200

 20,400

 21,600

 22,800

 24,000

 25,200

 26,400

 27,600

 28,800

 30,000

0

200

400

600

800

1,000

1,200

1,400

1,600

1,800

Ja
n

F
e

b

M
a

r

A
p

r

M
a

y

Ju
n

Ju
l

A
u

g

S
e

p

O
c

t

N
o

v

D
e

c

ABB Share Price BSE Sensex

1,155 

1,192 

1,295 

1,433 

1,318 

1,255 

1,322 
1,282 

1,203 1,189 
1,122 

1,080 

26,197 

25,002 

25,480 

26,101 

26,837 

27,105 

28,240 
28,532 

29,077 
28,478 

28,030 

26,804 

0

200

400

600

800

1,000

1,200

1,400

1,600

1,800

Ja
n

F
e

b

M
a

r

A
p

r

M
a

y

Ju
n

Ju
l

A
u

g

S
e

p

O
c

t

N
o

v

D
e

c

1,135

1,198

1,297

1,434
1,320

1,255

1,324
1,280

1,200 1,188
1,124 1,080

7,973

7,600
7,778

7,992

8,214

8,308

8,675
8,819

8,969
8,807

8,670

8,275

4,500

5,000

5,500

6,000

6,500

7,000

7,500

8,000

8,500

9,000

9,500

ABB Share Price  NSE Nifty



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 79

(x) Registrar and Share Transfer Agents

 Karvy Computershare Private Limited (Unit: ABB India Limited)

 No.51/2, T K N Complex, Vanivilas Road, Opp. National College, 

 Basavanagudi, Bengaluru – 560 004

 Phone No. 080-67453237

 Fax No. 080-26600786

 E-mail: einward.ris@karvy.com

 Karvy Computershare Private Limited (Unit: ABB India Limited)

 Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District, 

 Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Serilingampally Mandal,

 Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana

 Phone No. 1800 3454 001 / 040 6716 2222

 Fax No. 040 – 2342 0814

 E-mail: einward.ris@karvy.com

(xi) Share Transfer System

 The Company’s shares being in compulsory demat list, are transferable through the depository system. 

However, shares in the physical form are processed by the Registrar and Share Transfer Agents, and approved 

by the Stakeholders Relationship Committee. In order to expedite the process, the Board of Directors has also 

delegated the authority severally to the Managing Director (MD) and the Company Secretary to approve the 

share transfers and accordingly, the MD or the Company Secretary approve the transfer/transmission of shares 

generally on a weekly basis. The share transfer process is reviewed by the Committee.

(xii) Shareholding Pattern

(xiii) Distribution of Shareholding as on December 31, 2016

Shareholders                 As on 31.12.2016              As on 31.12.2015

No. of shares % No. of shares %

ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited Zurich &  

ABB Norden Holding AB Sweden

158,931,281 75.000 158,931,281 75.000

Non-Resident Individuals/OCBs 347,465 0.164 313,361 0.148

Directors and their relatives 3,500 0.002 3,500 0.002

LIC/UTI/Other Insurance Cos. 20,680,191 9.759 21,061,745 9.939

Nationalised Banks/Other Banks 533,810 0.252 428,764 0.202

Mutual Funds 5,704,547 2.692 4,948,678 2.335

Foreign Institutional Investors 6,472,358 3.054 7,986,508 3.769

Bodies Corporate/Trust 1,466,606 0.692 1,844,173 0.870

Foreign Portfolio Investors 2,792,259 1.318 1,268,163 0.598

General Public 14,976,358 7.067 15,122,202 7.136

Total 211,908,375 100.00 211,908,375 100.00

Category No. of Shareholders No. of Shares held % of equity capital

1 – 5000 64,429 12,820,662 6.05

5001 – 10000 244 1,650,029 0.78

10001 – 50000 129 2,496,284 1.18

50001 – 100000 14 1,012,305 0.48

100001 and above 35 193,929,095 91.52

Total 64,851 211,908,375 100.00



80 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(xiv) Dematerialisation of Shares and liquidity

 The equity shares of the Company are available under dematerialised form with National Securities Depository 

Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). The Company’s equity shares are 

compulsorily traded in the dematerialised form.

 As on December 31, 2016, out of 211,908,375 equity shares of the Company, 209,209,599 equity shares have 

been dematerialised representing 98.73%.

 Your Company confirms that the promoters’ holdings were converted into electronic form and the same is 

in line with the circulars issued by SEBI.

 Shareholders who are still holding shares in physical form are requested to dematerialize their shares at the 

earliest, this will be more advantageous to deal in securities. For queries / clarification / assistance, 

shareholders are advised to approach the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents.

(xv) Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any Convertible Instruments, conversion date and likely impact on 

equity.

 As on date, the Company has not issued GDRs, ADRs or any other Convertible Instruments and as such, there 

is no impact on the equity share capital of the Company.

(xvi) Code of Conduct

 As required under Listing Regulations, the Company has in place a Code of Conduct applicable to the Board 

Members as well as the Senior Management Personnel and that the same has been hosted on the Company’s 

website. All the Board Members and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the 

Code of Conduct, as on December 31, 2016.

 In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 

2015, the Company has, inter-alia, adopted a Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading Code of 

Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (Code) duly approved 

by the Board of Directors of the Company.

 As per the above Code, Mr. B Gururaj is the Compliance Officer and Mr. T. K. Sridhar is the Chief Investor 

Relations Officer.

(xvii) Company affirms that all the requirements under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 

Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 are complied with. 

(xviii) Plant Locations

 The Company’s plants are located at Peenya and Nelamangala in Bengaluru, Halol, Savali and Maneja in 

Vadodara, Faridabad, Mumbai, Mysuru and Nashik.

(xix) Commodity Price Risk / Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging activities

 Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk on account of import and export transactions entered. Also it 

is a sizable user of various commodities, including base metals & others, which exposes it to the price risk 

on account of procurement of commodities. The Company is proactively mitigating these risks by entering 

into commensurate hedging transactions with banks as per applicable guidelines and group risk management 

instructions.

 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 81

(xx) Address for correspondence

 ABB India Limited

 21st Floor, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway, No.26/1,

 Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram West, Bengaluru – 560 055

 Phone No: 080 22949150 - 22949153 | Fax No: 080 22949148

 Corporate Secretarial E-mail ID: investor.helpdesk@in.abb.com 

 Corporate Website: www.abb.co.in

(xxi) Corporate Identity Number

 The Corporate Identity Number (CIN), of the Company is L32202KA1949PLC032923.

(xxii) Compliance Officer

 Mr. B. Gururaj, Company Secretary (FCS-2631) is the Compliance Officer of the Company and Secretary to all 

the Committees of the Board.

(xxiii) Debenture Trustees

 IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited 

 Asian Building, Ground Floor,

 No. 17, R Kamani Marg, Ballard Estate, 

 Fort Mumbai - 400 001

 Contact Person: Mr. Ajit S Guruji 

 E-mail: ajit.guruji@idbitrustee.com 

 Phone No: 022 40807001 | Fax No: 022 66311776 / 40807080

15. Discretionary Requirements

• The position of the Chairman and Managing Director are separate.

• The Company does not maintain a separate office for the Non–Executive Chairman.

• The quarterly financial results are published in the newspapers of wide circulation and not sent to individual 

shareholders. Further the financial results are available on the website of the Company and of Stock Exchanges 

where the shares of the Company are listed i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited.

• The Auditors’ Opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified.

• Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.

  For ABB India Limited

  Frank Duggan

Place: Mumbai Chairman

Date: March 23, 2017  DIN: 02937233

Declaration by the Managing Director under Listing Regulations regarding compliance with Business Conduct  

Guidelines (Code of Conduct).

In accordance with the Listing Regulations, I hereby confirm that all the Directors and the Senior Management 

Personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them, for the 

Financial Year ended December 31, 2016.

  For ABB India Limited

  Sanjeev Sharma 

Place: Mumbai Managing Director 

Date: March 23, 2017 DIN: 07362344

 



82 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Annexure – H to Directors’ Report

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE

Corporate Identity No : L32202KA1949PLC032923 

Nominal Capital : ` 50 Crores 

To 

The Members of ABB India Limited, 

We have examined all the relevant records of ABB India Limited for the purpose of certifying compliance of the conditions 

of the Corporate Governance under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for 

the financial year ended December 31, 2016. We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of 

our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of certification.

The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the Management. Our examination was 

limited to the procedure and implementation process adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the 

conditions of the corporate governance. 

This certificate neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with 

which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations and information furnished to us, we 

certify that the Company has complied with all the mandatory conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the 

said Regulations. As regards Discretionary Requirements specified in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 

and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 the company has complied with items C, D and E. 

       For V. Sreedharan & Associates 

       Company Secretaries

       (Pradeep B. Kulkarni)

       Partner 

       F.C.S.7260; C.P.No.7835

Bangalore, February 9, 2017



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 83

—
Annexure – I to Directors’ Report

SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016

[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 

of Managerial Personnel) Rules 2014]

To, 

The Members, 

ABB India Limited, CIN: L32202KA1949PLC032923

21st Floor, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway, No. 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram West,

Bengaluru- 560055

We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 

corporate practices by ABB India Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a 

manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances, and 

expressing our opinion thereon. 

Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 

maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 

representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 

the audit period covering the financial year ended on 31st December, 2016, complied with the statutory provisions listed 

hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, 

in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: 

We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the 

Company for the financial year ended on 31st December, 2016 according to the provisions of: 

i. The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules made thereunder and the relevant provisions of The Companies 

Act, 1956 ; 

ii. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder; 

iii. The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Byelaws framed thereunder; 

iv. Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 

Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;

v. The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 

(‘SEBI Act’):

a.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 

b.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 

c.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 

d.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase 

Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 / Securities And Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) 

Regulations, 2014 (effective 28th October, 2014)- Not applicable as the Company has does not have ESOP 

Scheme/shares; 

e. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; 

f. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 

1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client; 

g. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 - Not applicable as 

the Company has not delisted /proposed to delist its equity shares from any stock exchange during the 

financial year under review; 

h. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 - Not applicable as the 

Company has not bought back / proposed to buyback any of its securities during the financial year under 

review. 



84 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

vi. The Company has identified the following laws as specifically applicable to the Company: 

1. Factories Act, 1948 & the Central Rules or concerned State Rules, made thereunder

2. Boilers Act, 1923 & Rules made thereunder

3. Electricity Act, 2003

4. Indian Explosives Act, 1884

5. Gas Cylinder Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act)

6. Static and Mobile Pressure Vessels (Unfired) Rules, 1981 (under Indian Explosives Act)

7. Environment (Protection) Act, 1986

8. The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 & Central Rules/ concerned State Rules.

9. The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 & Central Rules/ concerned State Rules

10. Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989

11. Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989

12. The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules.

13. The Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 & EPF, FPF Schemes.

14. The Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 & its Central Rules / concerned State Rules.

15. The Minimum Wages Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules/ Notification of Minimum Wages 

applicable to various class of industries/ Trade.

16. The Payment of Wages Act, 1936 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules if any.

17. The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules if any. 

18. The Payment of Gratuity Act & its Central Rules/ concerned State Rules if any.

19. The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 & its Rules.

20. The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976.

21. The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 & its Rules.

22. The Apprentices Act, 1961 & its Rules.

23. The Employment Exchange (Compulsory Notification of Vacancies) Act, 1959.

24. The Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923

25. The Industrial Dispute Act, 1947

26. The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 

27. The Information Technology Act, 2000

We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following: 

(i) Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) 

(ii) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; 

During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 

Standards, etc. mentioned above. 

We further report that : 

The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 

Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during 

the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act. 

Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were 

sent at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 

on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting. 

Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded as part of 

the minutes. 

We further report that based on review of compliance mechanism established by the Company and on the basis of the 

Compliance Certificate(s) issued by the Company Secretary and taken on record by the Board of Directors at their 

meeting(s), we are of the opinion that the management has adequate systems and processes commensurate with its 

size and operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines; and 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 85

As informed, the Company has responded to notices for demands, claims, penalties etc. levied by various statutory / 

regulatory authorities and initiated actions for corrective measures, wherever necessary. 

 For HBP & Co 

 Company Secretaries

Place: Bangalore Pramod S M 

Date: 9 February, 2017 Partner

 FCS 7834/ C P No.: 13784

 

This report to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure and forms an integral part of this report.

‘Annexure A’

To,

The Members,

ABB India Limited

CIN: L32202KA1949PLC032923

21st Floor, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway,

No. 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleshwaram West,

Bengaluru- 560055

Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.

1. Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to 

express as opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.

2. We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 

correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct 

facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a 

reasonable basis for our opinion.

3.  We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the 

Company.

4. Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 

regulations and happening of events etc.

5. The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, Rules, Regulations, standards is the 

responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.

6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 

effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

7. We further report that, based on the information provided by the Company its officers, authorised representatives 

during the conduct of the audit and also on the review of quarterly compliance report by the respective departmental 

heads/Company Secretary/Managing Director taken on record by the Board of the Company, in our opinion 

adequate systems and process and control mechanism exist in the Company to monitor compliance with applicable 

general laws like labour laws & Environment laws and Data protection policy. 

8. We further report that the Compliance by the Company of applicable Financial laws like Direct & Indirect tax laws 

has not been reviewed in this audit since the same has been subject to review by the statutory financial audit and 

other designated professionals.

 For HBP & Co

 Company Secretaries

 Pramod S M 

Place: Bangalore Partner

Date: 9 February, 2017 FCS 7834 / CP No. 13784



86 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
MD / CFO Certificate

To

The Board of Directors 

ABB India Limited

We certify that;

A. We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement of ABB India Limited for the year ended 

December 31, 2016 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:

1. these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements 

that might be misleading;

2. these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with 

existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.

B. To the best of our knowledge and belief, no transaction entered into by the Company during the year which are 

fraudulent, illegal or violate the code of conduct of the  Company.

C. We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls over financial reporting and that we have 

evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company over financial reporting and we have 

disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls 

over financial reporting, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken, propose to take, to rectify these 

deficiencies. In our opinion, there are adequate internal controls over financial reporting;

D. We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee that there are:

1. No significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;

2. No significant changes in accounting policies during the year; and

3. No instances of fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management or 

an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control systems over financial reporting.

E. We affirm that we have not denied any personnel access to the Audit Committee of the Company and we have 

provided protection to whistleblowers from unfair termination and other unfair or prejudicial employment practices.

We further declare that all Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code 

of Conduct and Ethics for the year covered by this report.

 

 Sanjeev Sharma  T. K. Sridhar

 Managing Director  Chief Financial Officer

  DIN: 07362344

Place: New Delhi

Date: February 9, 2017



—
Inclusive social development

—
DHENUKA SRINIVASAN, SUSTAINABILITY AFFAIRS, BENGALURU

We at ABB India are committed and 
continuously striving to give back to 
the community. Our drive has helped 
us fully meet our commitment for 
the year – a small step on the long 
road of building a sustainable 
community.

ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 87



88 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 89

093 – 099 Independent Auditor’s Report 

100 Balance Sheet

101 Statement of Profit and Loss

102 Cash Flow Statement

103 – 130 Notes to the Financial Statements

—

02

Financial Statements



90 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
RAJDEEPAK PANDEY, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, VADODARA

My aim is to understand all 
aspects of our customers’ 
requirements so that we can 
produce a superior product.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 91



—
Writing the future in India
Raigarh-Pugalur UHVDC technology for 
green energy corridor

UHVDC technology 
optimizes land usage 

to one third as 
compared to regular 
transmission corridor

6,000 MW  
transmission link with 
a capacity equivalent 
to more than 6 large 
power plants

In alignment with 
government’s vision 

of 24x7 reliable 
power for all

Integrating thermal 

and wind energy for 
power transmission to 
distant centers

Great example of 

Make in India 
leveraging our strong 
footprint in India

6x

*Ultra high voltage direct current

– 1,800 km two-way link to bring power to 80 million people with global 
technologies made in India

– Aligns with the government’s vision of 24x7 reliable power to all, balancing 
the demand-supply patterns for the southern region

92 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 93

—
Independent Auditor’s Report

To the Members of ABB India Limited

 

Report on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying financial statements 

of ABB India Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the 

balance sheet as at December 31, 2016, the statement of 

profit and loss and cash flow statement for the year then 

ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies 

and other explanatory information. 

Management’s Responsibility for the Financial 

Statements

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 

matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 

2013 (“the Act”) with respect to the preparation of these 

financial statements that give a true and fair view of the 

financial position, financial performance and cash flows 

of the Company in accordance with accounting principles 

generally accepted in India, including the Accounting 

Standards specified under section 133 of the Act, read 

with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014. This 

responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 

accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 

the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and 

for preventing and detecting frauds and other 

irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 

accounting policies; making judgments and estimates 

that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, 

implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 

financial controls that were operating effectively for 

ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 

records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of 

the financial statements that give a true and fair view and 

are free from material misstatement, whether due to 

fraud or error. 

Auditor’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 

financial statements based on our audit. We have taken 

into account the provisions of the Act, the accounting and 

auditing standards and matters which are required to be 

included in the audit report under the provisions of the 

Act and the Rules made thereunder. We conducted our 

audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing, 

issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 

(“ICAI”), as specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. 

Those Standards require that we comply with ethical 

requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 

reasonable assurance about whether the financial 

statements are free from material misstatement. 

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 

evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 

financial statements. The procedures selected depend on 

the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the 

risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, 

whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk 

assessments, the auditor considers internal financial 

controls relevant to the Company’s preparation of the 

financial statements that give a true and fair view in order 

to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 

circumstances. An audit also includes evaluating the 

appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 

reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by the 

Company’s Directors, as well as evaluating the overall 

presentation of the financial statements. We believe that 

the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 

appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 

financial statements.

Opinion

In our opinion and to the best of our information and 

according to the explanations given to us, the financial 

statements give the information required by the Act in the 

manner so required and give a true and fair view in 

conformity with the accounting principles generally 

accepted in India of the state of affairs of the Company as 

at December 31, 2016, its profit and its cash flows for the 

year ended on that date.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

1. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s report) 

Order, 2016 (“the Order”) issued by the Central 

Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) of 

section 143 of the Act, we give in the Annexure I a 

statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 

and 4 of the Order.

2. As required by section 143 (3) of the Act, we report 

that: 

(a) We have sought and obtained all the information 

and explanations which to the best of our 

knowledge and belief were necessary for the 

purpose of our audit;

(b) In our opinion proper books of account as 

required by law have been kept by the Company 

so far as it appears from our examination of 

those books;



94 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(c) The balance sheet, statement of profit and loss, 

and cash flow statement dealt with by this Report 

are in agreement with the books of account;

(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid financial statements 

comply with the Accounting Standards specified 

under section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of 

the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014; 

(e) On the basis of written representations received 

from the directors as on December 31, 2016, and 

taken on record by the Board of Directors, none 

of the directors is disqualified as on December 

31, 2016, from being appointed as a director in 

terms of section 164(2) of the Act;

(f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal 

financial controls over financial reporting of the 

Company and the operating effectiveness of 

such controls, refer to our separate Report in 

“Annexure II” to this report;

(g) With respect to the other matters to be included 

in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 

of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 

2014, in our opinion and to the best of our 

information and according to the explanations 

given to us:

i. The Company has disclosed the impact of pending 

litigations on its financial position in its financial 

statements – Refer Note 29 to the financial 

statements; 

ii. The Company has made provision, as required under 

the applicable law or accounting standards, for 

material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term 

contracts including derivative contracts - Refer Note 

42 to the financial statements;

iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 

required to be transferred, to the Investor Education 

and Protection Fund by the Company.

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP 

Chartered Accountants

ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004

per Navin Agrawal

Partner

Membership Number: 56102

Place of signature: New Delhi

Date: February 9, 2017



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 95

—
Annexure I referred to in clause 1 of 
paragraph on the report on other legal 
and regulatory requirements of our 
report of even date

Re: ABB India Limited (‘the Company’)

(i) (a)  The Company has maintained proper records 

showing full particulars, including quantitative 

details and situation of fixed assets.

(b) All fixed assets have not been physically verified 

by the management during the year but there is 

a regular programme of verification which, in our 

opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size 

of the Company and the nature of its assets. No 

material discrepancies were noticed on such 

verification. 

(c)  According to the information and explanations 

given by the management, the title deeds of 

immovable properties included in fixed assets 

are held in the name of the Company, except for 

certain freehold land area aggregating to 5 acres 

and 31 guntas, out of a land parcel acquired by 

the Company, on a slump sale basis in 2011. As 

explained to us, registration of title deeds of 

these lands is under progress. 

(ii) The inventory has been physically verified by the 

management during the year. In our opinion, the 

frequency of verification is reasonable. No material 

discrepancies were noticed on such physical 

verification. 

(iii) According to the information and explanations given 

to us, the Company has not granted any loans, secured 

or unsecured to companies, firms, limited liability 

partnerships or other parties covered in the register 

maintained under section 189 of the Companies Act, 

2013 (‘the Act). Accordingly, the provisions of clause 

3(iii)(a), (b) and (c) of the Order are not applicable to 

the Company and hence not commented upon.

(iv) In our opinion and according to the information and 

explanations given to us, there are no loans, 

investments, guarantees, and securities given in 

respect of which provisions of section 185 and 186 of 

the Act are applicable and hence not commented 

upon.

 (v) The Company has not accepted any deposits from the 

public.

(vi) We have broadly reviewed the books of account 

maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules 

made by the Central Government for the maintenance 

of cost records under section 148(1) of the Act, and 

are of the opinion that prima facie, the specified 

accounts and records have been made and maintained. 

We have not, however, made a detailed examination of 

the same.

(vii) (a) The Company is regular in depositing with 

appropriate authorities undisputed statutory 

dues including provident fund, employees’ state 

insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, 

customs duty, excise duty, value added tax, cess 

and other material statutory dues applicable  

to it.

(b) According to the information and explanations 

given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in 

respect of provident fund, employees’ state 

insurance, income-tax, service tax, sales-tax, 

duty of custom, duty of excise, value added tax, 

cess and other material statutory dues were 

outstanding, at the year end, for a period of more 

than six months from the date they became 

payable.



96 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(c)  According to the records of the Company, the dues outstanding of income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty of 

custom, duty of excise, value added tax and cess on account of any dispute, are as follows:

*` 201 crores paid under protest.

Name of the Statute Nature of dues Amount (` in 

Crores)*

Period to 

which it relates 

Forum where dispute is pending

Faridabad Development Act 

(Octroi)

Product Classification 3.04 1986-1994 High Court

Sales Tax Act Tax, interest and penalty 205.28 1996-2015 Additional Commissioner (Appeals) /

Assistant Commissioner of Commercial

Taxes / Commissioner of Commercial Taxes

/ Deputy Commissioner of Commercial

Taxes (Appeals) / Deputy Commissioner

(Appeals) / Joint Commissioner of Commercial 

Taxes (Appeals) / Taxation Board

97.06 1994-2013 High Court

39.15 1994-2014 Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal

Customs Act,1962 Tax, Interest and Penalty 0.59 2009-2014 Commissioner of Customs (Appeals)

1.14 2008-2014 CESTAT

0.14 2013-2014 High Court

Central Excise Act,1944 Tax, Interest and penalty 49.34 1996-2014 Commissioner (Appeals)/Commissioner (LTU) / 

Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue)

21.92 2004-2015 CESTAT

0.34 2006-2007 Supreme Court

Finance Act,1994 Service Tax, interest and 

penatly

0.22 2011-2014 Commissioner (Appeals)

76.82 2006-2014 CESTAT

0.40 2006-2007 Supreme Court

Income Tax Act, 1961 Tax, interest and penalty 8.33 2010-2011 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal

44.98 2011-2012 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal

30.64 2012-2013 Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)

32.32 2013-2014 Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 97

(viii) In our opinion and according to the information 

and explanations given by the management, 

the Company has not defaulted in repayment 

of loans or borrowing to a financial institution, 

bank or government or dues to debenture 

holders.

(ix) According to the information and explanations 

given by the management, the Company has 

not raised any money by way of initial public 

offer / further public offer / debt instruments 

and term loans during the year. Hence, 

reporting under clause (ix) of the Order is not 

applicable to the Company and hence not 

commented upon.

(x)  Based upon the audit procedures performed 

for the purpose of reporting the true and fair 

view of the financial statements and according 

to the information and explanations given by 

the management, we report that no fraud by 

the Company or no fraud on the Company by 

the officers and employees of the Company 

has been noticed or reported during the year.

(xi) According to the information and explanations 

given by the management, the managerial 

remuneration has been paid / provided in 

accordance with the requisite approvals 

mandated by the provisions of section 197 read 

with Schedule V to the Act.

(xii)  In our opinion, the Company is not a nidhi 

company. Therefore, the provisions of clause 

3(xii) of the Order are not applicable to the 

Company and hence not commented upon.

(xiii)  According to the information and explanations 

given by the management, transactions with 

the related parties are in compliance with 

section 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable 

and the details have been disclosed in the 

notes to the financial statements, as required 

by the applicable accounting standards.

(xiv)  According to the information and explanations 

given to us and on an overall examination of the 

balance sheet, the Company has not made any 

preferential allotment or private placement of 

shares or fully or partly convertible debentures 

during the year under review and hence, 

reporting requirements under clause 3(xiv) are 

not applicable to the Company and, hence not 

commented upon.

(xv) According to the information and explanations 

given by the management, the Company has 

not entered into any non-cash transactions 

with directors or persons connected with 

directors as referred to in section 192 of the 

Act.

(xvi)  According to the information and explanations 

given to us, the provisions of section 45-IA of 

the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 are not 

applicable to the Company.

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP

Chartered Accountants

ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004

per Navin Agrawal

Partner 

Membership No.: 56102

Place of signature: New Delhi

Date: February 9, 2017



98 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Annexure II to the Independent 
Auditor’s Report of even date on the 
Standalone Financial Statements of 
ABB India Limited

Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) 

of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 

2013 (“the Act”)

We have audited the internal financial controls over 

financial reporting of ABB India Limited (“the Company”) 

as of December 31, 2016 in conjunction with our audit of 

the standalone financial statements of the Company for 

the year ended on that date.

Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 

Controls

The Company’s Management is responsible for 

establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 

based on the internal control over financial reporting 

criteria established by the Company considering the 

essential components of internal control stated in the 

Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 

Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 

Accountants of India. These responsibilities include the 

design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 

internal financial controls that were operating effectively 

for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its 

business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, 

the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 

detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 

completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 

preparation of reliable financial information, as required 

under the Companies Act, 2013. 

Auditor’s Responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 

Company’s internal financial controls over financial 

reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 

accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 

Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance 

Note”) and the Standards on Auditing as specified under 

section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an 

audit of internal financial controls and, both issued by the 

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Those 

Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 

with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit 

to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 

internal financial controls over financial reporting was 

established and maintained and if such controls operated 

effectively in all material respects.

Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 

evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 

controls system over financial reporting and their 

operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 

controls over financial reporting included obtaining an 

understanding of internal financial controls over financial 

reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 

exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 

operating effectiveness of internal control based on the 

assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 

auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the 

risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, 

whether due to fraud or error. 

 

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 

sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 

opinion on the internal financial controls system over 

financial reporting.

Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 

Reporting 

A company’s internal financial control over financial 

reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable 

assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting 

and the preparation of financial statements for external 

purposes in accordance with generally accepted 

accounting principles. A company’s internal financial 

control over financial reporting includes those policies 

and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 

records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 

reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of 

the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 

transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 

preparation of financial statements in accordance with 

generally accepted accounting principles, and that 

receipts and expenditures of the company are being made 

only in accordance with authorisations of management 

and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 

assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 

unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the 

company’s assets that could have a material effect on the 

financial statements.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 99

Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over 

Financial Reporting

Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 

controls over financial reporting, including the possibility 

of collusion or improper management override of controls, 

material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur 

and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of 

the internal financial controls over financial reporting to 

future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 

financial control over financial reporting may become 

inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the 

degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 

deteriorate.

Opinion

In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 

an adequate internal financial controls system over 

financial reporting and such internal financial controls 

over financial reporting were operating effectively as at 

December 31, 2016, based on the internal control over 

financial reporting criteria established by the Company 

considering the essential components of internal control 

stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 

Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 

of Chartered Accountants of India.

For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP

Chartered Accountants

ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004 

per Navin Agrawal

Partner

Membership Number: 56102

Place of Signature: New Delhi

Date: February 9, 2017



100 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Balance Sheet

(` in Crores)

Balance sheet as at December 31, 2016 Notes 2016 2015 

Equity and liabilities

Shareholders’ funds

Share capital 3  42.38  42.38 

Reserves and surplus 4  3,240.40  2,966.17 

 3,282.78  3,008.55 

Non-current liabilities

Long-term borrowings 5 600.00  600.00 

Other long-term liabilities 7 3.91 4.30 

Long-term provisions 8 52.08  47.92 

655.99 652.22 

Current liabilities

Short-term borrowings 33  0.04  - 

Trade payables 6

 Total outstanding dues to micro enterprises and small enterprises  117.68  119.10 

 Total outstanding dues to creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises  2,039.63  1,982.86 

Other current liabilities 7  1,237.23  1,267.70 

Short-term provisions 8  395.56  378.40 

 3,790.14  3,748.06 

Total  7,728.91  7,408.83 

Assets

Non-current assets

Fixed assets

 Tangible assets 9  1,168.79  1,199.36 

 Intangible assets 10  86.12  99.06 

 Capital work-in-progress  67.78  44.28 

Non-current investments 11  16.23  16.31 

Deferred tax assets (net) 12  78.36  48.96 

Long-term loans and advances 13  380.60  422.20 

Other non-current assets 14  7.23  6.69 

 1,805.11  1,836.86 

Current assets

Current investments 11  0.08  0.08 

Inventories 15  940.25  939.57 

Trade receivables 16  3,063.33  3,390.93 

Cash and bank balances 17  1,189.16  573.59 

Short-term loans and advances 13  330.78  278.08 

Other current assets 14  400.20  389.72 

 5,923.80  5,571.97 

Total  7,728.91  7,408.83 

Summary of significant accounting policies 2   

    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements    

    

As per our report of even date    

    

For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP     For and on behalf of the Board

ICAI Firm Registration Number : 101049W/E300004   

Chartered Accountants      Frank Duggan                   Chairman 

        Sanjeev Sharma               Managing Director 

Per Navin Agrawal       Nasser Munjee                  Director  

Partner        T. K. Sridhar                       Chief Financial Officer

Membership No: 56102      B. Gururaj                           Company Secretary  

    

New Delhi, February 9, 2017      New Delhi, February 9, 2017



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 101

—
Statement of Profit and Loss

(` in Crores)

For the year ended December 31, 2016 Notes 2016 2015

Revenue

Revenue from operations (gross)  9,189.68  8,670.70 

Less: Excise duty  541.31  530.43 

Revenue from operations (net) 18  8,648.37  8,140.27 

Other income 19  65.27  13.04 

Total revenue  8,713.64  8,153.31 

Expenses

Cost of raw materials and components consumed and project bought outs 20  4,641.36  4,560.51 

Purchases of traded goods 21  401.59  321.64 

(Increase) / decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods 22 66.64 (48.56)

Subcontracting charges  507.69  466.42 

Employee benefit expenses 23  767.82  749.87 

Finance costs 24  84.92  91.16 

Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 25  150.95  159.79 

Other expenses 26  1,516.62  1,377.89 

Total expenses  8,137.59  7,678.72 

Profit before tax 576.05 474.59 

Tax Expenses

Current tax  229.20  203.71 

Deferred tax charge / (credit) (29.40) (29.00)

Total tax expenses 199.80 174.71 

Profit for the year 376.25 299.88 

Earnings per equity share face value of ` 2 each, (December 31, 2015 : ` 2 each) 27

Basic 17.76 14.15 

Diluted 17.76 14.15 

Summary of significant accounting policies 2   

    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements    

    

As per our report of even date    

    

For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP     For and on behalf of the Board

ICAI Firm Registration Number : 101049W/E300004   

Chartered Accountants      Frank Duggan                   Chairman 

        Sanjeev Sharma               Managing Director 

Per Navin Agrawal       Nasser Munjee                  Director  

Partner        T. K. Sridhar                       Chief Financial Officer

Membership No: 56102      B. Gururaj                           Company Secretary  

    

New Delhi, February 9, 2017      New Delhi, February 9, 2017



102 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

—
Cash Flow Statement

(` in Crores)

For the year ended December 31, 2016 2016 2015

A. Cash flow from operating activities   

Profit before tax 576.05 474.59 

Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows

Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 150.95 159.79 

Unrealised exchange loss / (gains) (net) 18.50 30.03 

(Profit) / loss on sale of fixed assets (net) (27.47) 6.72 

Provision for doubtful debts and advances 32.59 46.21 

Interest income (37.80) (13.04)

Interest expense 84.92 91.16 

Operating profit before working capital changes 797.74 795.46 

Movement in working capital

Increase /(decrease) in trade payables and other current liabilities 0.39 114.65 

Increase /(decrease) in provisions 13.67 18.07 

Decrease/(increase) in trade receivables 300.65 (279.72)

Decrease/(increase) in inventories (0.68) (45.75)

Decrease/(increase) in loans and advances (22.95) (29.38)

Decrease/(increase) in other current assets (9.02) 5.17 

Cash generated from operations  1,079.80 578.50 

Direct taxes paid (net of refunds) (217.23) (196.83)

Net cash flow from operating activities 862.57 381.67 

B. Cash flow from investing activities

Purchase of fixed assets (138.69) (109.61)

Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 34.67 19.48 

Proceeds from maturity of investments 0.08 0.08 

Interest received 36.34 12.87 

Investment in deposits (with maturity more than three months) (0.54)  - 

Redemption of deposits (with maturity more than three months)  - 0.79 

Net cash flow used in investing activities (68.14) (76.39)

C. Cash flow from financing activities

Proceeds from short-term borrowings  0.04  11,162.95 

Proceeds from long-term borrowings  -  600.00 

Repayment of short-term borrowings  - (11,534.02)

Interest paid (84.50) (92.68)

Dividend (including dividend distribution tax) paid (94.37) (94.09)

Net cash flow from / (used in) financing activities (178.83) 42.16 

Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 615.60 347.44 

Effects of exchange (loss) / gain on cash and cash equivalents (0.23)  - 

Cash and cash equivalents (opening balance) 571.55 224.11 

Cash and cash equivalents (closing balance)  1,186.92 571.55 

Components of cash and cash equivalents

Cash and bank balances  1,189.16 573.59 

Less: Unpaid dividend account  2.24 2.04 

(Also refer note no. 17)  1,186.92  571.55 

Note: 

1) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year represent cash and cheques on hand and cash and deposits with banks.  

2) The figures of the previous year have been regrouped/reclassified, where necessary, to conform with the classification of the 

current year.  

3) Cash flow statement is made using the indirect method.

  

As per our report of even date    

For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP     For and on behalf of the Board

ICAI Firm Registration Number : 101049W/E300004   

Chartered Accountants      Frank Duggan                   Chairman 

        Sanjeev Sharma               Managing Director 

Per Navin Agrawal       Nasser Munjee                  Director  

Partner        T. K. Sridhar                       Chief Financial Officer

Membership No: 56102      B. Gururaj                           Company Secretary  

    

New Delhi, February 9, 2017      New Delhi, February 9, 2017



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 103

—
Notes to the Financial Statements

1. Corporate information       
        

 ABB India Limited (‘the Company’) has served utility and industry customers for over six decades with the complete 

range of engineering, products, solutions and services in areas of Automation and Power technology. The Company 

has extensive installed base for manufacturing and a countrywide marketing and service presence. Besides catering 

to Indian domestic market, the Company is also playing an increasing role in the global market.   

      

2. Significant accounting policies
        

2.1 Basis of preparation of financial statements

        

 The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the generally accepted 

accounting principles in India (Indian GAAP). The Company has prepared these financial statements to comply 

in all material respects with the accounting standards notified under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013, 

read together with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014. The financial statements have been prepared 

on an accrual basis and under the historical cost convention except certain derivative financial instruments 

which have been measured at fair value.

 The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of financial statements are consistent with those used in 

the previous year.       

2.2 Use of estimates

        

 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) 

requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 

liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities as at the date of the financial statements and reported 

amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 

Any revision to accounting estimates is recognized prospectively in current and future periods.   

    

2.3 Change in useful lives of assets

        

 Pursuant to the requirements of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), the management had 

reassessed and changed, wherever necessary the useful lives to compute depreciation from January 1, 2015, 

which was the effective date for application of Schedule II for the Company. Accordingly, the carrying amount 

as at January, 1 2015 is being depreciated over the revised remaining useful life of the assets. The carrying value 

of ` 8.94 crores (net of deferred tax of ` 4.73 crores), in case of assets with Nil revised remaining useful life as 

at January 1, 2015 was reduced from the retained earnings. Further, had the Company continued with the 

previously assessed useful lives, charge for depreciation for the previous year would have been lower and the 

profit for the previous year would have been higher by ` 37.96 crores.   

2.4 Tangible and intangible assets       

        

 Fixed assets are stated at the cost of acquisition, less accumulated depreciation / amortisation and 

accumulated impairment losses, if any. Cost of fixed assets comprises purchase price, duties, levies and any 

directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working condition for the intended use. Own manufactured 

assets are capitalized at cost including an appropriate share of overheads. Borrowing costs related to the 

acquisition or construction of the qualifying fixed assets for the period up to the completion of their acquisition 

or construction are capitalized, if capitalization criteria are met. Cost of fixed assets not ready for their 

intended use before balance sheet date are disclosed under capital work in progress.    

   



104 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

 Subsequent expenditure related to an item of fixed asset is added to its book value only if it increases the 

future benefits from the existing asset beyond its previously assessed standard of performance. All other 

expenses on existing fixed assets, including day-to-day repair and maintenance expenditure and cost of 

replacing parts, are charged to the statement of profit and loss for the period during which such expenses are 

incurred.

 Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of fixed assets are measured as the difference between the net 

disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognized in the statement of profit and loss 

when the asset is derecognized. 

      

 Capitalized software includes costs on Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Project and other costs relating to 

software, which provide significant future economic benefits. ERP Project costs comprise license fees and cost 

of system integration services. All costs relating to upgradations / enhancements are generally charged off as 

revenue expenditure unless they bring significant additional benefits of lasting nature.    

       

2.5 Depreciation / amortization

        

 Depreciation on assets is provided on the straight-line method on the basis of economic useful lives as 

estimated by the management.

 The identified components are depreciated separately over their useful lives; the remaining components are 

depreciated over the life of the principal asset. Depreciation is provided from the date of capitalisation till the 

date of sale of assets.       

        

 Useful lives estimated by the management in years:       

• Leasehold land and leasehold improvements over the period of lease being 1 to 10 years

• Factory buildings 15-30

• Other buildings 3-60

• Furniture and fixtures 10

• Office equipments 3-5

• Plant and equipment 2-21

• Vehicles 5

• Technical know-how fees 3-10

• Capitalized software costs 3-5

        

 Goodwill on business acquisition is not amortized but tested for impairment.     

        

2.6 Impairment of assets       

        

 The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date if there is any indication of impairment 

based on internal/ external factors. An impairment loss is recognized wherever the carrying amount of an asset 

exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s net selling price and value 

in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a 

pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to 

the assets. In determining net selling price, recent market transactions are taken into account, if available. If no 

such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. Impairment losses, including 

impairment on inventories, are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. After impairment, depreciation 

is provided on the revised carrying amount of the assets over its remaining useful life.

 A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to 

determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. The reversal is limited 

so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying 

amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the 

asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognized in the statement of profit and loss.    

   



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105

2.7 Investments

        

 Investments that are readily realisable and intended to be held for not more than a year from the date on which 

such investments are made are classified as current investments. All other investments are classified as long-

term investments. Current investments are carried at lower of cost and fair value determined on an individual 

investment basis. Long-term investments are carried at cost. However, provision for diminution in value is made 

to recognize a decline other than temporary in the value of the investments. 

 On disposal of an investment, the difference between its carrying amount and net disposal proceeds is charged 

or credited to the statement of profit and loss.

      

2.8 Inventories

        

 Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of various categories of inventories 

is arrived at as follows:       

        

• Stores, spares, raw materials, components and traded goods - at rates determined on the moving weighted 

average method.  

• Goods in Transit – at actual cost.        

• Work-in-progress and finished goods - at full absorption cost method which includes direct materials, 

direct labour and manufacturing overheads. Cost is determined on weighted average method. Excise duty 

is included in the value of finished goods inventory.       

       

 Provision for obsolescence is made wherever necessary.       

        

 Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of 

completion and estimated costs necessary to make the sale.       

        

2.9 Retirement and other employee benefits       

        

 Contribution to Superannuation Fund, a defined contribution scheme, is made at pre-determined rates to the 

Superannuation Fund Trust and is charged to the statement of profit and loss during the period in which the 

employee renders the related services. There are no other obligations other than the contribution payable to 

the Superannuation Fund Trust.       

 

 Contributions to the recognized Provident Fund/ Gratuity Fund, defined benefits scheme, and provision for 

other long term employee benefits - leave are made on the basis of actuarial valuations using the projected unit 

credit method made at the end of each financial year and are charged to the statement of profit and loss during 

the year.       

 

 Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilised within the next 12 months, is treated as short-term employee 

benefits. The Company measures the expected cost of such absences as the additional amount that it expects 

to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the reporting date. The Company presents 

the entire accumulated leave as a current liability in the balance sheet, since it does not have an unconditional 

right to defer its settlement for 12 months after the reporting date.      

 

 Actuarial gains/losses are immediately taken to the statement of profit and loss and are not deferred.   

     

 Expenses incurred towards voluntary retirement scheme are charged to the statement of profit and loss 

immediately.        



106 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

2.10 Revenue recognition       

        

 Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and 

the revenue can be reliably measured.        

        

• Sales of products and services are recognized when significant risks and rewards of ownership of products 

are passed on to customers or when the service has been provided. In case of large transformers, revenue 

is recognized on achievement of contractual milestone. Revenue recognized in excess of billing has been 

reflected under “Other Current Assets” as Unbilled Revenue. Net sales are stated at contractual realisable 

values, net of excise duty, sales tax, service tax, value added tax and trade discounts.  

• Revenues from long-term contracts are recognized on the percentage of completion method, in proportion 

that the contract costs incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total 

contract costs. Contract revenue earned in excess of billing has been reflected under “Other Current 

Assets” and billing in excess of contract revenue has been reflected under “Other Current Liabilities” in the 

balance sheet. Full provision is made for any loss in the year in which it is first foreseen. 

• Liquidated damages / penalties are provided for as per the contract terms wherever there is a delayed 

delivery attributable to the Company.

• Commission income is recognized as per contract terms and when accrued.

• Income from development services are recognized on rendering of service as per contract terms

• Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive dividend is established.

• Interest income is recognized on a time proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and 

the rate applicable.      

        

2.11 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets       

        

 A provision is recognized when the Company has a present obligation as a result of past event and it is probable 

that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, in respect 

of which a reliable estimate can be made based on technical evaluation and past experience. Provisions are not 

discounted to its present value and are determined based on management estimate required to settle the 

obligation at the balance sheet date. These are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the 

current management estimates.       

 Disclosures for contingent liability are made when there is a possible or present obligation for which it is not 

probable that there will be an outflow of resources. When there is a possible or present obligation in respect of 

which the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, no disclosure is made.     

       

 Contingent assets are neither recognized nor disclosed in the financial statements.    

        

 Provisions for warranty-related costs are recognized when the product is sold or service provided. Provision is 

based on historical experience. The estimate of such warranty-related costs is revised annually.   

       

2.12 Foreign currency transactions        

        

 Foreign currency transactions are recorded by applying the daily exchange rates. Exchange differences arising 

on foreign currency transactions settled during the year are recognized in the statement of profit and loss for 

the year.       

 All foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates prevailing 

on the balance sheet date. The resultant exchange differences are recognized in the statement of profit and 

loss for the year. Non-monetary items, which are measured in terms of historical cost denominated in a foreign 

currency, are reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary items, which are 

measured at fair value or other similar valuation denominated in a foreign currency, are translated using the 

exchange rate at the date of transaction.       

 The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts to hedge its risks 

associated with foreign currency fluctuations.       



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 107

 Gain or loss on restatement of forward exchange contracts for hedging underlying outstandings at the balance 

sheet date are recognized in the statement of profit and loss for the year in which it occurs. The premium or 

discount on such contracts is recognized in the statement of profit and loss over the period of the contract. 

      

 Gain or loss on fair valuation of forward exchange contracts for hedging highly probable forecasted transactions 

not covered under Accounting Standard (AS) 11 “ The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates” are recognized 

in the statement of profit and loss for the year in which it occurs.      

 

 The Company does not follow hedge accounting.       

        

2.13 Taxation       

        

 Tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax.       

        

 The current charge for income tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid to the tax authorities in 

accordance with the Indian Income Tax Act including probable adjustments, if any, for international and 

domestic transactions with associated enterprises.       

 The deferred tax for timing differences between the book and tax profits for the year is accounted for using 

the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted as of the balance sheet date. Deferred 

tax assets arising from timing differences are recognized to the extent there is virtual certainty that the assets 

can be realised in future. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date for its realisability. The 

Company writes-down the carrying amount of deferred tax assets to the extent it is no longer reasonably 

certain of its realisation. 

      

2.14 Operating leases       

        

 Leases, where the lessor effectively retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the leased 

item, are classified as operating leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the 

statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term.     

        

2.15 Operating cycle       

        

 A portion of the Company‘s activities (primarily long-term project activities) has an operating cycle that 

exceeds one year. Accordingly, assets and liabilities related to these long-term contracts, which will not be 

realized/paid within one year, have been classified as current. For all other activities, the operating cycle is 

twelve months.       

        

2.16 Earnings per share

       

 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity 

shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. The weighted 

average number of equity shares outstanding during the period is adjusted for events such as bonus issue, 

bonus element in a rights issue, share split, and reverse share split (consolidation of shares) that have changed 

the number of equity shares outstanding, without a corresponding change in resources.

 For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to 

equity shareholders and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period are adjusted 

for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.      



108 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

2016 2015

 Number ` in Crores  Number ` in Crores

3 Share capital

Authorised share capital

Equity shares of ` 2/- each  21,25,00,000 42.50  21,25,00,000 42.50 

11% Redeemable 10 years, cumulative preference 

shares of ` 100/- each

 7,50,000 7.50  7,50,000 7.50 

50.00 50.00 

Issued, subscribed and fully paid up

Equity shares of ` 2/- each 21,19,08,375 42.38 21,19,08,375 42.38 

42.38 42.38 

a) Terms/rights attached to equity shares

     

 The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2/- per share. Each holder of equity shares is 

entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian Rupees. The dividend proposed by 

the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. 

    

 During the year ended December 31, 2016, the amount of per share dividend recommended and provided for 

distributions to equity shareholders is ` 4.00/-. (December 31, 2015: ` 3.70/-)    

    

 In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets 

of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of 

equity shares held by the shareholders.  

      

b) Shares held by holding / ultimate holding company and/or their subsidiaries / associates    

 

  Number ` in Crores  Number ` in Crores

Equity shares of ` 2/- each

ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited - the holding 

company

14,63,90,951 29.28 14,63,90,951 29.28 

ABB Norden Holding AB - a fellow subsidiary 1,25,40,330 2.51 1,25,40,330 2.51 

15,89,31,281 31.79 15,89,31,281 31.79 

c) Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of the shares in the Company  

  Number % of holding  Number % of holding

Equity shares of ` 2/- each

ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited - the holding 

company

14,63,90,951 69.08 14,63,90,951 69.08 

ABB Norden Holding AB - a fellow subsidiary 1,25,40,330 5.92 1,25,40,330 5.92 

Life Insurance Corporation of India 1,73,42,297 8.18 1,75,60,357 8.29 

 As per records of the Company and other declarations received from shareholders, the above shareholding represents 

both legal and beneficial ownerships of shares.    

     

d) There is no movement in the share capital during the current and previous year.



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109

2016 2015 

4 Reserves and surplus

Capital reserve 1.10 1.10 

Capital redemption reserve 7.50 7.50 

Securities premium account 60.00 60.00 

Debenture redemption reserve

Balance as per last financial statements  50.00  - 

Add: Transferred during the year  50.00  50.00 

Balance at the end of the year 100.00  50.00 

General reserve

Balance as per last financial statements 2,738.16  2,597.10 

Add: Transferred during the year  210.00 150.00 

Less: Transitional adjustment towards depreciation on tangible fixed assets (refer note 2.3)  -  8.94 

Balance at the end of the year 2,948.16 2,738.16 

Surplus in the statement of profit and loss

Balance as per last financial statements 109.41 103.90 

Profit for the year 376.25 299.88 

Less: Appropriations

Proposed equity dividend  84.76  78.41 

Tax on proposed equity dividend  17.26  15.96 

Transfer to debenture redemption reserve  50.00  50.00 

Transfer to general reserve  210.00 150.00 

Total appropriations  362.02 294.37 

Net surplus in the statement of profit and loss 123.64 109.41 

Total reserves and surplus 3,240.40 2,966.17 

(` in Crores)

(` in Crores)

 Non-current

2016 2015 

5 Long term borrowings

600 (December 31, 2015: 600) Unsecured, listed, redeemable, non-convertible debenture 

having face value of ` 1,00,00,000 each.

 600.00  600.00 

 600.00  600.00 

The debentures are repayable after 3 years from the date of allotment being September 4, 2015. The debentures carry 

interest rate of MIBOR plus 80 basis points. The proceeds have been utilized towards working capital and other corporate 

purposes including refinancing of Company’s debt.



110 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(` in Crores)

Current

2016 2015 

6 Trade Payables

Dues to micro and small enterprises (refer note below) 117.68  119.10 

 117.68  119.10 

Dues to creditors other than micro and small enterprises

Acceptances  596.54  523.70 

Other trade payables  1,443.09  1,459.16 

 2,039.63  1,982.86 

Total trade payables  2,157.31  2,101.96 

The Company has amounts due to Micro and Small Enterprises under The Micro, Small and 

Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (MSMED Act) as at December 31, 2016 

i) The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as 

at December 31, 2016

Principal amount  113.40 115.67 

Interest  0.29 0.58 

ii) The amount of interest paid by the Company along with the amounts of the payment 

made to the supplier beyond the appointed day for the year ending December 31, 2016

Principal amount  -  390.51 

Interest  0.32  9.76 

iii) The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 

(beyond the appointed day during the year) 

 3.99 2.85 

iv) The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid for the year ending December 31, 

2016

 4.28 3.43 

v) The amount of further interest remaining due and payable for the earlier years.  3.11  - 

(` in Crores)

Non-current Current

2016 2015 2016 2015 

7 Other liabilities

Investor education and protection fund shall be credited for 

unclaimed dividends amount when due  -  -  2.24  2.04 

Billing in excess of contract revenue  -  -  222.31  211.44 

Mark to market loss on derivatives  -  -  26.62  9.66 

Advances from customers  -  -  484.30  605.83 

Employee related payables  -  -  126.81  114.99 

Security deposits received  3.91  4.30  0.08  0.08 

Statutory dues payable  -  -  21.06  16.84 

Interest accrued but not due on long-term borrowings  -  -  3.13  3.56 

Liability for expenses  -  -  179.84  196.83 

Creditor for capital goods  -  -  70.60  57.21 

Other liabilities  -  -  100.24  49.22 

Total other liabilities  3.91  4.30  1,237.23  1,267.70 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 111

(` in Crores)

Long-term Short-term

2016 2015 2016 2015 

8 Provisions

Provisions for employee benefits

Gratuity (refer note 46)  -  -  15.00  1.35 

Leave benefits  -  -  35.35  38.51 

Other provisions

Proposed dividend to equity shareholders  -  -  84.76 78.41 

Tax on proposed equity dividend  -  -  17.26 15.96 

Warranties (refer note 42)  -  -  152.24 144.15 

Loss orders (refer note 42)  -  -  33.90  49.58 

Litigations (refer note 42)  11.98  11.98  -  - 

Sales tax (refer note 42)  40.10  35.94  57.05  50.44 

Total provisions  52.08  47.92 395.56 378.40 

9 Tangible assets

(` in Crores)

Gross block Freehold

Land

Leasehold

Land

Leasehold 

Improvements

Factory

Buildings

Other

Buildings

Plant and 

Equipment

Office 

Equipments

Furniture 

and Fixtures

Vehicles Total

Balance as at January 01, 2015  67.29  23.43  36.55  348.04  67.55  1,164.25  32.90  58.93  1.46  1,800.40 

Additions  -  - 1.51 6.67 4.60 66.93 3.47 9.66 0.21  93.05 

Disposals  -  - (0.84)  - (0.07) (40.60) (0.55) (1.59) (0.02)  (43.67)

Balance as at December 31, 2015  67.29  23.43  37.22  354.71  72.08  1,190.58  35.82  67.00  1.65  1,849.78 

 

Additions  -  -  1.44  6.47  4.99  91.61  3.43  4.56  0.21  112.71 

Disposals  (0.01)  -  (1.89)  -  (0.24)  (22.94)  (1.55)  (0.57)  -  (27.20)

Balance as at December 31, 

2016

 67.28  23.43  36.77  361.18  76.83  1,259.25  37.70  70.99  1.86  1,935.29 

Accumulated depreciation

Balance as at January 01, 2015  -  1.86  14.05  64.94  10.07  388.06  13.15  22.92  1.33  516.38 

Charge for the year  -  0.33  3.16  11.67  4.16  104.57  4.82  9.06  0.07  137.84 

Depreciation transferred to 

general reserve (refer note 2.3)

 -  -  -  0.15  0.02  2.50  8.92  2.08  -  13.67 

Reversal on disposal of assets  -  -  (0.42)  -  (0.04)  (15.27)  (0.55)  (1.17)  (0.02)  (17.47)

Balance as at December 31, 2015  -  2.19  16.79  76.76  14.21  479.86  26.34  32.89  1.38  650.42 

 

Charge for the year  -  0.33  3.07  11.92  3.37  106.95  3.76  6.58  0.10  136.08 

Reversal on disposal of assets  -  -  (1.71)  -  (0.11)  (16.21)  (1.55)  (0.42)  -  (20.00)

Balance as at December 31, 

2016

 -  2.52  18.15  88.68  17.47  570.60  28.55  39.05  1.48  766.50 

Net block

Balance as at December 31, 2015  67.29  21.24  20.43  277.95  57.87  710.72  9.48  34.11  0.27  1,199.36 

Balance as at December 31, 

2016

 67.28  20.91  18.62  272.50  59.36  688.65  9.15  31.94  0.38  1,168.79 

Notes:

a) Other buildings include cost of shares in Lotus Court Private Limited ` 0.01 crores (December 31, 2015 - ` 0.01 crores). 

b) The Company had acquired freehold land of 20 acres 36 guntas on a slump sales basis, in 2011. Out of such free hold land acquired 15 acres and 

5 guntas is registered in the Company’s name and the balance 5 acres and 31 guntas is in the process of being registered.   

c) There are no tangible assets given on operating lease/taken on finance lease.



112 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

10 Intangible assets

(` in Crores)

Gross block  Goodwill Technical  

Know-how fees

Capitalised 

Software

Total

Balance as at January 01, 2015  52.26  111.93  7.25  171.44 

Additions  -  2.75  2.74  5.49 

Disposals  -  -  -  - 

Balance as at December 31, 2015  52.26  114.68  9.99  176.93 

Additions  -  1.19  0.74  1.93 

Disposals  -  -  -  - 

Balance as at December 31, 2016  52.26  115.87  10.73  178.86 

Accumulated amortisation / impairment

Balance as at January 01, 2015  0.29  52.22  3.41  55.92 

Charge for the year  -  14.91  1.49  16.40 

Impairment charge  5.55  -  -  5.55 

Reversal on disposal of assets  -  -  -  - 

Balance as at December 31, 2015  5.84  67.13  4.90  77.87 

Charge for the year  -  13.23  1.64  14.87 

Reversal on disposal of assets  -  -  -  - 

Balance as at December 31, 2016  5.84  80.36  6.54  92.74 

Net block

Balance as at December 31, 2015  46.42  47.55  5.09  99.06 

Balance as at December 31, 2016  46.42  35.51  4.19  86.12 

(` in Crores)

Non-current Current

2016 2015 2016 2015 

11 Investments

Non-trade investments (Valued at cost)

Quoted:

15,00,000 (December 31, 2015: 15,00,000) 6.25%, 2018 

Government of India Bonds of ` 100 each.

 15.96  15.96  -  - 

Unquoted:

1,000 (December 31, 2015: 1,000) Equity shares of ` 25 

each fully paid up in Co-operative Bank of Baroda

 0.01  0.01  -  - 

10 (December 31, 2015: 10) 5.95%, 15 years Non-

cumulative bonds of Karnataka Water & Sanitation 

Pooled Fund Trust of ` 333,334 (December 31, 2015:  

` 416,667) each.

 0.26  0.34  0.08  0.08 

 16.23  16.31  0.08  0.08 

Aggregate amount of 

Quoted investments (Market Value: ` 14.98 Crores, 

(December 31, 2015: ` 14.67 Crores))

 15.96  15.96  -  - 

Unquoted investments  0.27  0.35  0.08  0.08 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 113

(` in Crores)

2016 2015 

12 Deferred tax assets (net)

Deferred tax liability

Fixed assets: Impact of difference between tax depreciation and depreciation / amortisation 

charged for the financial reporting

 141.47 148.00 

Gross deferred tax liability  141.47 148.00 

Deferred tax assets

Provision for doubtful debts and advances  175.60 162.08 

Expenditure debited to the statement of profit and loss but allowable for tax purpose in following 

years

 39.71 23.37 

Others  4.52 11.51 

Gross deferred tax assets  219.83 196.96 

Deferred tax assets (net)  78.36 48.96 

(` in Crores)

 Non-current  Current

2016 2015 2016 2015

13 Loans and advances

Capital advances

Unsecured, considered good  5.60 5.05  -  - 

Security deposits

Unsecured, considered good  25.16  31.74  11.76 7.60 

Advances to related parties (refer note 40)

Unsecured, considered good  -  -  7.90 6.48 

Advances recoverable in cash or kind

Unsecured, considered good  5.13  -  45.20 52.86 

Considered doubtful  5.17  4.77  -  - 

 10.30 4.77  45.20 52.86 

Less: Provision for doubtful advances  5.17 4.77  -  - 

 5.13  -  45.20  52.86 

Other loans and advances

Unsecured, considered good

Advance income-tax (net of provision for tax ` 2,191.71 crores, 

December 31, 2015: ` 1,962.79 crores)

 178.40  190.37  -  - 

Prepaid expenses  -  -  16.63 12.11 

Loans to employees  -  -  5.37 6.01 

Balances with statutory/government authorities  -  -  144.34 77.41 

Taxes and duties recoverable

Considered good  166.31  195.04  99.58 115.61 

Considered doubtful  -  -  -  - 

 166.31  195.04  99.58  115.61 

Less: Provision for doubtful advances  -  -  -  - 

 166.31  195.04  99.58  115.61 

 344.71  385.41  265.92  211.14 

Total loans and advances  380.60  422.20  330.78  278.08 

Taxes and duties recoverable includes amount paid under protest



114 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(` in Crores)

Non-current Current

2016 2015 2016 2015

14 Other assets

Unsecured, considered good

Non current bank balances (refer note 17)  7.23  6.69  -  - 

Contract revenue in excess of billing / unbilled revenue  -  - 358.60 348.21 

Interest accrued on fixed deposits  -  - 1.91 0.45 

Interest accrued on investments  -  - 0.48 0.48 

Assets held for sale*  -  - 4.77  6.10 

Other receivables  -  - 34.44 34.48 

Total other assets  7.23  6.69  400.20 389.72 

*Assets held for sale relates to plant and equipment having gross block ` 18.12 crores and accumulated depreciation / 

impairment ` 13.35 crores.    

(` in Crores)

2016 2015

15 Inventories (valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)

Raw materials and components (Including goods-in-transit of ` 111.71 crores, December 31, 2015: ` 83.08 

crores) (refer note 20)

 586.82 519.57 

Work-in-progress (refer note 22)  292.78 348.61 

Finished goods (refer note 22)  45.89 57.03 

Traded goods (refer note 22)  12.12 11.79 

Stores and spares  2.64 2.57 

Total inventories  940.25 939.57 

(` in Crores)

Non-current Current

2016 2015 2016 2015 

16 Trade receivables

Unsecured

Outstanding for a period exceeding six months from the date they 

are due for payment

Unsecured, considered good  -  -  187.85 250.72 

Considered doubtful  341.47 289.61  160.76  180.42 

 341.47 289.61  348.61  431.14 

Less: Provision for doubtful receivables  341.47 289.61  160.76  180.42 

(A)  -  -  187.85  250.72 

Other receivables

Unsecured, considered good  -  -  2,875.48  3,140.21 

Considered doubtful  -  -  -  - 

 -  -  2,875.48  3,140.21 

Less: Provision for doubtful receivables  -  -  -  - 

(B)  -  -  2,875.48  3,140.21 

Total (A + B)  -  -  3,063.33  3,390.93 

Trade receivables include:

Dues from ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited, in 

which the Company's Managing Director is a director.

 -  -  6.60 11.12 

Dues from Lafarge India Private Limited in which one of the 

Company’s Director is a Director.

 -  -  - 1.34 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 115

(` in Crores)

Non-current Current

2016 2015 2016 2015

17 Cash and bank balances

Cash and cash equivalents

Balances with banks 

- On current accounts  -  - 146.82 131.23 

- Deposit accounts (Original maturity upto 3 months)  -  -  950.00  240.00 

Cheques / drafts on hand  -  -  90.09 200.31 

Cash on hand  -  - 0.01  0.01 

 -  -  1,186.92  571.55 

Other bank balances

Unpaid dividend account  -  -  2.24 2.04 

Margin money deposit  7.23 6.69  -  - 

 7.23  6.69  2.24 2.04 

Less: Disclosed under other assets (refer note 14)  7.23  6.69  -  - 

Total cash and bank balance  -  -  1,189.16 573.59 

    

(` in Crores)

2016 2015 

18 Revenue from operations (net)

Sale of products and services

 Sale of products  7,941.89  7,469.31 

 Sale of services  573.67  545.84 

 8,515.56  8,015.15 

Other operating revenues

 Scrap sales  20.66 22.93 

 Commission income  6.35 2.38 

 Income from development services  54.47 52.35 

 Miscellaneous income  51.33 47.46 

 132.81 125.12 

Revenue from operations (net)  8,648.37  8,140.27 

Detail of sale of products and services

(i) Sale of products

Switchgear of all types  2,258.75  2,116.73 

Transformers  814.21 755.55 

Electronic control and supply units for variable speed drives and other applications  1,263.24  1,050.81 

Motors and other machines  747.59 704.62 

Others  2,858.10  2,841.60 

 7,941.89  7,469.31 

(ii) Sale of services

Erection, commissioning and other engineering services  573.67  545.84 

 573.67  545.84 

 8,515.56  8,015.15 

The above includes revenue from construction contracts (refer note 39).



116 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(` in Crores)

2016 2015 

19 Other income

Interest income from deposits with bank  18.69 0.85 

Interest income from long-term investments  0.96 0.97 

Interest income - on tax refunds etc.  18.15 11.22 

Profit on sale of fixed assets (net)  27.47  - 

 65.27 13.04 

20 Cost of raw materials and components consumed and project bought outs

Opening stock  519.57  522.56 

Add: Purchases during the year  4,708.61  4,557.52 

Less: Closing stock  586.82  519.57 

 4,641.36  4,560.51 

Details of raw materials and components consumed and project bought outs

 Electrical motors, generators, drives, components and equipments  779.48  729.23 

 Protecting and control elements  345.99  327.28 

 Sheet metal components, casting and forging  322.71  305.64 

 Non ferrous metal and alloys  292.02  291.94 

 Power convertors  358.89  323.27 

 Electronic components and equipments  353.40  308.80 

 Wires, cables and conductors  209.54  242.30 

 Ferrous metals and alloys  190.25  172.28 

 Others  1,789.08  1,859.77 

 4,641.36  4,560.51 

The above amount includes project bought outs of ` 1,019.65 crores  

(December 31, 2015 - ` 796.07 crores)

Details of inventory

Raw materials and components

 Protecting and control elements  102.03  105.59 

 Electrical motors, generators, drives, components and equipments  99.31  99.39 

 Electronic components and equipments  60.27  56.13 

 Mechanical components  40.92  43.72 

 Power convertors  43.32  29.62 

 Non ferrous metal and alloys  31.64  27.69 

 Others  209.33  157.43 

 586.82  519.57 

21 Purchases of traded goods

Motors and other machines  80.47  75.69 

Transformers  15.13  7.64 

Switchgears  16.53  5.45 

Power invertors  4.77  3.44 

Others  284.69  229.42 

 401.59  321.64 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 117

(` in Crores)

2016 2015 

22 (Increase) / decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and 
traded goods

Opening stock

- Finished goods  57.03  65.22 

- Work-in-progress  348.61  289.68 

- Traded goods  11.79  13.97 

 417.43  368.87 

Closing stock

- Finished goods  45.89  57.03 

- Work-in-progress  292.78  348.61 

- Traded goods  12.12  11.79 

 350.79  417.43 

66.64 (48.56)

Details of inventory of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods

Finished Goods

 Motors and other machines  2.73  6.68 

 LV switchgear products  11.82  15.11 

 Transformers  0.80  0.66 

 MV switchgears  2.31  3.42 

 Others  28.23  31.16 

 45.89  57.03 

Work - in - progress

 Transformers  67.03  100.06 

 MV switchgears  18.63  9.12 

 Motors and other machines  34.20  31.83 

 Variable speed AC/DC Drive system and other applications  44.86  32.78 

 LV switchgear products  16.51  18.96 

 Others  111.55  155.86 

 292.78  348.61 

Traded goods

 Motors and other machines  11.63  11.43 

 Others  0.49  0.36 

 12.12  11.79 

23 Employee benefit expenses

Salaries, wages and bonus  649.08  645.77 

Gratuity (refer note 46)  26.56  11.65 

Provident fund (refer note 46)  18.82  16.71 

Contribution to superannuation and other funds  23.63  24.07 

Staff welfare expenses  39.12  37.66 

Training, recruitment and transfer expenses  10.61  14.01 

 767.82  749.87 

24 Finance costs

Interest expenses  72.51 80.69 

Bill discounting and other charges  12.41 10.47 

 84.92 91.16 



118 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(` in Crores)

2016 2015 

25 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense

Depreciation of tangible assets  136.08 137.84 

Amortisation of intangible assets  14.87 16.40 

Impairment of intangible assets  -  5.55 

 150.95 159.79 

26 Other expenses

Consumption of stores and spares  28.85  26.66 

Packing expenses  31.04  28.86 

Royalty and technology fees  306.20  248.89 

Freight and forwarding  103.85  90.06 

Postage and telephone  10.30  9.71 

Commission (other than sole selling agent)  5.27  11.62 

Discount  6.70  4.15 

Power and fuel  64.36  58.20 

Travelling and conveyance  136.62  123.90 

Insurance  16.04  14.23 

Rates and taxes  39.55  17.00 

Rent  42.30  52.93 

Repairs :

 Buildings  6.19  4.80 

 Plant and machinery  30.11  25.96 

 Others  7.24  7.15 

Provision for doubtful debts and advances (net) 32.59  46.21 

Bad debts / advances written off  39.96  23.82 

Loss on sale of fixed assets (net)  -  6.72 

Printing and stationery  6.93  5.96 

Bank charges  15.71  15.07 

CSR expenditure (refer note no. 47)  7.41  1.70 

Legal and professional  33.21  29.34 

Auditor's remuneration (refer note below)  2.34  2.43 

Trade-mark fees  66.99  63.76 

Information technology expenses  144.01  123.92 

Exchange rate difference - loss (net)  48.72  34.13 

Director's fees and commission  1.08  0.90 

Services from third parties  81.93  77.84 

Testing and inspection charges  22.63  17.62 

Seminar and publicity expenses  8.54  21.21 

Group management fees etc.  113.53  84.82 

Miscellaneous  56.42  98.32 

 1,516.62  1,377.89 

Auditor’s remuneration (excluding service tax)

As auditor:

 Audit fee  1.02  1.02 

 Tax audit fee  0.26  0.26 

 Limited review  0.39  0.39 

In other capacity:

 Sox and group reporting fees  0.50  0.50 

 Certification, etc  0.05  0.21 

Reimbursement of expenses  0.12  0.05 

 2.34  2.43 

27 Earning per share (EPS)

a) Net profit for calculation of basic and diluted EPS  376.25 299.88 

b) Weighted average number of shares for calculation of EPS 21,19,08,375 21,19,08,375

c) Nominal value of shares (in `)  2.00  2.00 

d) Earnings per share- Basic and diluted (in `)  17.76 14.15 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 119

28. Segment reporting       

A) Primary segment reporting (by business segments)

i) Composition of business segments     

 The Company’s business segments are organized around products and system solutions provided to 

its customers, which include utilities, industries, channel partners and original equipment 

manufacturers.     

 

 Discrete Automation and Motion segment (DM) provides products, with related services, that are 

used as components in machinery and automation systems. The segment covers a wide range of 

products and services including power electronics systems, motors and generators, drives, robots 

etc.     

 

 Electrification Products segment (EP) manufactures low- and medium-voltage circuit breakers, 

switches, control products, wiring accessories, enclosures and cable systems to protect people, 

installations and electronic equipment from electrical overload. The division further makes KNX 

systems that integrate and automate a building’s electrical installations, ventilation systems, and 

security and data communication networks. Electrification Products also incorporates an 

Electrification Solutions unit manufacturing low voltage switchgear and motor control centres. 

Customers include a wide range of industry and utility operations, plus commercial and residential 

buildings.     

 

 Process Automation segment (PA) provides customers with integrated solutions for control, plant 

optimization and industry specific application knowledge. The industries served include oil and gas, 

power, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, pulps and paper, metals and minerals, marine and turbo 

charging.     

 

 “Power Grids segment (PG) offers key components for the transmission and distribution of electricity. 

The division also offers turnkey systems and service for power transmission and distribution grids, 

and for power plants. Electrical substations and substation automation systems are key areas. 

Additional highlights include flexible AC transmission systems (FACTS), high-voltage direct current 

(HVDC) systems and network management systems.”    

        

ii) The accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements of the Company are also 

applied for segment reporting.

     

iii) Segment revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are those, which are directly attributable to the 

segment or are allocated on an appropriate basis. Corporate and other revenues, expenses, assets 

and liabilities to the extent not allocable to segments are disclosed in the reconciliation of reportable 

segments with the financial statements. 

   

iv) Inter segment transfer pricing      

 Inter segment prices are normally negotiated amongst the segments with reference to the costs, 

market prices and business risks, within an overall optimization objective for the Company.  

   

v) The segment disclosures have been revised in the current year effective January 1, 2016 and presented 

in line with Company’s new organisation structure.     

 The Company has realigned its segment into four divisions: Discrete Automation and Motion, 

Electrification Products, Process Automation and Power Grids. The evolving requirements of the 

utility customers are reflected in the new Power Grids division. The other three divisions will cater to 

industry, transport and infrastructure. Low and Medium voltage businesses have been combined to 

form the new Electrification Products division.     

vi) Figures in brackets are in respect of the previous year.



120 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

vii) Segment revenues, results and other information  

(` in Crores)

Discrete 

Automation and 

Motion

Electrification 

Products

Process 

Automation

Power Grids Total

External sales 2,219.94 1,563.98 1,282.97 3,418.10 8,484.99 

(net of excise duty) (1,948.45) (1,462.87) (1,295.40) (3,283.52) (7,990.24)

Inter segment sales 95.59 180.14 37.08 65.47 378.28 

(104.51) (152.79) (34.49) (201.82) (493.61)

Other operating revenue 21.21 31.53 6.03 44.46 103.23 

(09.46) (35.24) (6.66) (48.02) (99.38)

Segment revenues 2,336.74 1,775.65 1,326.08 3,528.03 8,966.50 

(2,062.42) (1,650.90) (1,336.55) (3,533.36) (8,583.23)

Segment results 222.33 245.82 154.10 174.63 796.88 

(169.69) (190.81) (149.58) (216.22) (726.30)

Segment assets 1,181.40 863.89 934.94 2,927.29 5,907.52 

(1,066.98) (873.73) (973.94) (3,380.07) (6,294.72)

Segment liabilities 808.38 490.35 520.07 1,774.28 3,593.08 

(734.39) (473.49) (552.77) (1,801.27) (3,561.92)

Capital expenditure 22.34 25.15 5.49 32.95 85.93 

(17.55) (34.45) (6.32) (27.69) (86.01)

Depreciation / amortisation 20.38 34.21 4.19 56.40 115.18 

(22.60) (34.22) (4.17) (63.69) (124.68)

Impairment loss  -  -  -  -  - 

 (-)  (-) (5.55)  (-) (5.55)

Other non-cash expenses/ 

reversals 2.19 -10.79 -7.95  40.17 23.62 

 (2.44)  (-0.15)  (18.97)  (23.96)  (45.22)

viii) Reconciliation of reportable segments with the financial statements

(` in Crores)

Revenues Results /  

Net profit

Capital 

expenditure

Assets Liabilities

Total segments 8,966.50 796.88 85.93 5,907.52 3,593.08 

(8,583.23) (726.30) (86.01) (6,294.72) (3,561.92)

Corporate - unallocated (net) 125.42 -135.91 52.76 1,821.39 853.05 

(63.69) (-160.55) (23.60) (1,114.11) (838.36)

Inter segment sales -378.28  -  -  -  - 

 (-493.61)  (-)  (-)  (-)  (-) 

Interest expense  - -84.92  -  -  - 

 (-) (-91.16)  (-)  (-)  (-) 

Provision for tax  - -199.80  -  -  - 

 (-) (-174.71)  (-)  (-)  (-) 

As per financial statements 8,713.64 376.25 138.69 7,728.91 4,446.13 

(8,153.31) (299.88) (109.61) (7,408.83) (4,400.28)



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 121

B) Secondary segment reporting (by geographical segments)

      

 Secondary segment disclosures are reported on the basis of geographical location of customers. Segment assets 

and capital expenditure are based on location of assets.

(` in Crores)

India Rest of world Total

Segment revenues 7,450.64 1,263.00 8,713.64 

(7,220.76) (932.55) (8,153.31)

Segment assets 7,229.57 499.34 7,728.91 

(7,037.69) (371.14) (7,408.83)

Segment capital expenditure 138.69  - 138.69 

(109.61)  - (109.61)

        

(` in Crores)

As at December 31, 2016 2015

29. Contingent liabilities

i) Excise duty / service tax and sales tax liabilities in dispute  528.25  590.72 

ii) Custom duty liabilities in dispute  2.31  2.54 

iii) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts  74.87  14.05 

iv) Income tax matters in dispute  45.37  26.53 

 The Company is contesting the demands and the management believes that its position will likely be upheld 

in the various appellate authorities/courts. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of this 

proceeding will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. 

       

 In respect of the above contingent liabilities, the future cash outflows are determinable only on receipt of 

judgement pending at various forums / authorities.        

 

(` in Crores)

2016 2015

30. Capital and other commitments

Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on account of capital and other 

commitments and not provided for (net of advances)    

 69.43  56.42 

31. The Company has taken several premises and vehicles under cancellable and non-cancellable operating 

leases. These lease agreements are normally for one to ten years and have option of renewal on expiry of 

lease period based on mutual agreement. Rental expenses towards cancellable and non-cancellable operating 

lease charged to the statement of profit and loss amounts to ` 42.30 crores (Previous Year ` 52.93 crores).  

 

Some of the lease agreements have escalation clause ranging from 5% to 15%. There are no exceptional / restrictive 

covenants in the lease agreement. There are no assets given on operating lease.      

       

 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:    

     

(` in Crores)

2016 2015

Within one year  14.83  11.82 

After one year but not more than five years  12.82  18.36 

More than five years 0.70  - 

 28.35  30.18 

32. Excise duty on sales amounting to ` 541.31 crores (Previous year ` 530.43 crores) has been reduced from sales in 

the statement of profit and loss. Excise duty reversal on decrease in inventory of finished goods amounting to  

` 1.15 crores (Previous year ` 0.90 crores) has been accounted in the statement of profit and loss under the head 

(Increase)/ decrease in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods.



122 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

33. Short term borrowings represent unsecured overdraft facility from banks. The same is repayable on demand and 

carries interest @ 9% to 11% p.a.    

(` in Crores)

For the year ended December 31, 2016 2015

34. Earnings in foreign currency

(on accrual basis)

i) Export of goods on FOB basis 1,067.89 874.68

ii) Goods supplied/services rendered locally against foreign exchange remittances 34.31 34.39

iii) Erection & other services 102.76 87.37

iv) Other income:

a) Commission 6.35 2.38

b) Development services and others 86.20 67.38

1,297.51 1,066.20

35. Consumption of raw materials, components and stores and spares

(` in Crores)

2016 2015

% Amount % Amount

Imported 56.65  2,068.16  51.39  1,948.34 

Indigenously acquired 43.35  1,582.40  48.61  1,842.76 

100.00  3,650.56  100.00  3,791.10 

 

(` in Crores)

For the year ended December 31, 2016 2015

36. Value of imports on CIF basis 

(on accrual basis)

Raw materials  265.75  233.43 

Components and spares  1,614.40  1,537.79 

Finished goods  8.89  11.13 

Capital goods including technical know-how  14.43  16.17 

Project items  361.62  303.08 

 2,265.09  2,101.60 

37. Expenditure in foreign currency 

(on accrual basis)

Royalty and technology Fees  292.16  237.44 

Trade-mark fees  66.99  63.81 

Travelling and conveyance  13.90  13.00 

Information technology expenses  90.84  74.61 

Interest on non-convertible bond  44.75  15.31 

Others  142.74  126.56 

 651.38  530.73 

38. Amount remitted during the year in foreign currency, on account of dividend

i) Number of non resident shareholders  3  3 

ii) Number of equity shares held by them on which dividend was paid 15,89,31,986 15,89,31,986

iii) Year ended to which the dividend related December 31, 2015 2014 

iv) Amount remitted 58.80 58.80

39. Construction Contracts

Contract revenue recognised for the financial year  2,319.84  2,859.37 

Aggregate amount of contract costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses) for 

all the contracts in progress up to the reporting date    

 9,386.58  9,520.54 

Amount of customer advances outstanding for contracts in progress  257.61  342.23 

Amount of retentions due from customers for contracts in progress  721.35  870.14 

Amount due from customers for contracts in progress  1,291.65  1,272.70 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 123

40. Related party disclosures 

a) List of related parties

 Party where control exists:

 ABB Limited, Zurich, Switzerland (Ultimate Holding Company)

 ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited, Zurich, Switzerland (Holding Company)

 

 Other Related parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year:

Fellow subsidiaries: 

ABB (Asea Brown Boveri), S.A., Oeiras, Portugal

ABB (China) Ltd., Beijing, China

ABB (Hong Kong) Ltd., Hong Kong, Hong Kong

ABB (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd., Windhoek, Namibia

ABB (Private) Ltd., Harare, Zimbabwe

ABB (Pty) Ltd., Gaborone, Botswana

ABB (Pvt) Ltd., Lahore, Pakistan

ABB A/S, Skovlunde, Denmark

ABB AB, Västerås, Sweden

ABB AG, Mannheim, Germany

ABB AG, Vienna, Austria

ABB AS, Billingstad, Norway

ABB AS, Jüri, Estonia

ABB Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd., Subang Jaya, Malaysia

ABB Australia Pty Limited, Moorebank, NSW, Australia

ABB Automation Co. Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

ABB Automation GmbH, Mannheim, Germany

ABB Automation L.L.C., Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates

ABB Automation Products GmbH, Ladenburg, Germany

ABB B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands

ABB Bailey Beijing Engineering Co. Ltd., Beijing, China

ABB Bailey Japan Limited, Shizuoka-Ken, Japan

ABB Beijing Drive Systems Co. Ltd., Beijing, China

ABB Beteiligungs-Management GmbH, Mannheim, Germany

ABB Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia, Bulgaria

ABB Business Services Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland

ABB Canada Holding Limited Partnership, Saint-Laurent, Canada

ABB Capital B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands

ABB Chongqing Transformer Company Ltd., Chongqing, China

ABB Contracting Company Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

ABB d.o.o., Belgrade, Serbia

ABB Ecuador S.A., Quito, Ecuador

ABB Electrical Industries Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

ABB Electrical Machines Ltd., Shanghai, China

ABB Elektrik Sanayi A.S., Istanbul, Turkey

ABB Engg. Technologies Co. (KSCC), Safat, Kuwait

ABB Engineering (Shanghai) Ltd., Shanghai, China

ABB Engineering Trading and Service Ltd., Budapest, Hungary

ABB Enterprise Software Inc., Atlanta, GA, United States

ABB Enterprise Software UK Limited, Warrington, United Kingdom

ABB ESAP Limited, St. Peter’s Port, Guernsey

ABB Finance B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands

ABB for Electrical Industries (ABB ARAB) S.A.E., Cairo, Egypt

ABB France, Cergy Pontoise, France

ABB FZ-LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

ABB Generators Ltd., Nanchang, China

ABB Genway Xiamen Electrical Equipment Co. Ltd., Xiamen, China

ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited, Bengaluru, India

ABB Global Marketing FZ LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

ABB Hefei Transformer Co. Ltd., Hefei, China

ABB High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Ltd., Xiamen, China

ABB High Voltage Switchgear Co., Ltd. Beijing, Beijing, China

ABB Holdings B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands

ABB Holdings Sdn. Bhd., Subang Jaya, Malaysia

ABB Import & Export Services Ltd., Oranjestad/Aruba (NA), Aruba

ABB Inc., Cary, NC, United States

ABB Management Services Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland

ABB Inc., Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada

ABB Industries (L.L.C.), Dubai, United Arab Emirates

ABB Industries FZ, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland

ABB International Marketing Ltd in liquidation, Zurich, Switzerland

ABB Intra AG, Baden, Switzerland

ABB Inzeniring d.o.o., Ljubljana, Slovenia

ABB Jiangjin Turbo Systems Company Limited, Chongqing, China

ABB Jiangsu Jingke Instrument Transformer Co., Ltd., Suqian, 

Jiangsu, China

ABB K.K., Tokyo, Japan

ABB Limited, Auckland, New Zealand

ABB Limited, Bangkok, Thailand

ABB Limited, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania, United Republic of

ABB Limited, Dhaka, Bangladesh

ABB Limited, Dublin, Ireland

ABB Limited, Nairobi, Kenya

ABB Limited, Warrington, United Kingdom

ABB Limited/Jordan LLC., Amman, Jordan

ABB LLC, Doha, Qatar

ABB LLC, Muscat, Oman

ABB LLP., Almaty, Kazakhstan

ABB Logistics Center Europe GmbH, Menden, Germany

ABB Ltd., Hanoi, Vietnam

ABB Ltd., Kampala, Uganda

ABB Ltd., Kiev, Ukraine

ABB Ltd., Lusaka, Zambia

ABB Ltd., Moscow, Russian Federation

ABB Ltd., Seoul, Korea, Republic of

ABB Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan, Province of China

ABB Ltd., Zagreb, Croatia

ABB Ltda., Bogotá, Colombia

ABB Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil

ABB LV Installation Materials Co. Ltd. Beijing, Beijing, China

ABB Malaysia Sdn Bhd., Subang Jaya, Malaysia

ABB Mexico S.A. de C.V., San Luis Potosi SLP, Mexico

ABB Motion Limited, Bristol, United Kingdom

ABB N.V., Zaventem, Belgium

ABB Near East Trading Ltd., Amman, Jordan

ABB Norden Holding AB, Västerås, Sweden

ABB Oryx Motors and Generators Service LLC, Doha, Qatar

ABB Oy, Helsinki, Finland

ABB Power & Automation (Private) Limited, Lahore, Pakistan

ABB Power Equipment (Xiamen) Co., Ltd., Xiamen, China

ABB Power Protection SA, Gambarogno, Switzerland

ABB Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore

ABB Research Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland

ABB S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina

ABB S.A., Casablanca, Morocco

ABB S.A., Lima, Peru

ABB S.A., Panama, Panama

ABB S.A., Santiago, Chile

ABB S.p.A., Milan, Italy

ABB s.r.o., Prague, Czech Republic



124 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

ABB SARL, Kinshasa Gombe, Congo, Democratic Republic of the

ABB SAS, Cergy Pontoise, France

ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland

ABB Sécheron S.A., Satigny, Switzerland

ABB Service Co. Ltd., Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia

ABB Shanghai Motors Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China

ABB Shanghai Transformer Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China

ABB Shenzhen New Energy System Co., Ltd , Shenzhen, China

ABB SIA, Riga, Latvia

ABB South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Longmeadow, South Africa

ABB Sp. z o.o., Warsaw, Poland

ABB Stotz-Kontakt GmbH, Heidelberg, Germany

ABB Striebel & John GmbH, Sasbach, Germany

ABB Technologies Ltd., Haifa, Israel

ABB Technologies S.A., Dakar, Senegal

ABB Technologies W.L.L., Bahrain, Bahrain

ABB Technology Oy, Helsinki, Finland

ABB Technology SA, Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire

ABB Training Center GmbH & Co. KG, Heidelberg, Germany

ABB Transformers S.A.E., El-Nozha El-Gedida, Egypt

ABB Transmission & Distribution Limited LLC, Abu Dhabi, United 

Arab Emirates

ABB Turbo Systems (Hong Kong) Limited, Hong Kong, Hong Kong

ABB Turbo Systems AG, Baden, Switzerland

ABB Turbo Systems Holding Ltd., Baden, Switzerland

ABB Turbochargers S.A.E., Suez, Egypt

ABB UAB, Avizieniai , Lithuania

ABB Verwaltungs AG, Zurich, Switzerland

ABB Xiamen Electrical Controlgear Co. Ltd., Xiamen, China

ABB Xiamen Low Voltage Equipment Co. Ltd., Xiamen, China

ABB Xiamen Switchgear Co. Ltd., Xiamen, China

ABB Xi’an High Power Rectifier Company Limited, Xi’an, China

ABB Xi’an Power Capacitor Company Limited, Xi’an, China

ABB Xinhui Low Voltage Switchgear Co. Ltd., Xinhui , China

ABB Zhongshan Transformer Company Ltd., Zhongshan, China

ABB, Inc., Paranaque, Metro Manila, Philippines

ABB, s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia

ABB NG Limited, Lagos, Nigeria

Asea Brown Boveri Electrica SGPS (Angola) Limitada, Luanda, Angola

Asea Brown Boveri Industrial, Technical & Commercial Company of 

Imports – Exports S.A., Metamorphossis Attica , Greece

Asea Brown Boveri Lanka (Private) Limited, Colombo, Sri Lanka

Asea Brown Boveri Ltd., Moka, Mauritius

Asea Brown Boveri Ltda., La Paz, Bolivia, Plurinational State of

Asea Brown Boveri S.A., Caracas, Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of

Asea Brown Boveri S.A., Douala, Cameroon

Asea Brown Boveri S.A., Madrid, Spain

Asea Brown Boveri S.A.E., Cairo, Egypt

Baldor Electric (Asia) PTE Ltd., Singapore, Singapore

Baldor Electric Company, Fort Smith, AR, United States

Busch-Jaeger Elektro GmbH, Lüdenscheid, Germany

Electrical Materials Center Co. Ltd, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

Maska Power Transmission (Changzhou) Co.Ltd., Changzhou, China

Power-One Italy S.p.A., Terranuova Bracciolini (AR), Italy

Power-One Renewable Energy Solutions India Private Limited, 

Mumbai, India

Power-One Renewable Energy Solutions LLC, Delaware, United States

PT ABB Sakti Industri, Jakarta, Indonesia

Pucaro Elektro-Isolierstoffe GmbH, Roigheim, Germany

Shanghai ABB Power Transmission Company Ltd., Shanghai, China

Shantou Winride Switchgear Co., Ltd., Longhu District Shantou, 

China

Spirit IT B.V., Eindhoven, Netherlands

Sucursal Panama de ABB SA, Panama, Panama

Thomas & Betts Asia (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore

Thomas & Betts Corporation, Knoxville, TN, United States

Thomas & Betts India Private Ltd., Hyderabad, India

Thomas & Betts Limited, Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec, Canada

Thomas & Betts Power Solutions LLC, Delaware, United States

Trasfor SA, Monteggio, Switzerland

Turbo Systems United Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Japan

Key Managerial Personnel :       

       

Managing Director: Mr. Sanjeev Sharma   

Company Secretary: Mr. B. Gururaj   

Chief Financial Officer: Mr. T.K. Sridhar   

(` in Crores)

As at December 31, 2016 2015

b) Transactions with related parties

Transaction value in excess of 10% with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. 

All other cases have been grouped and disclosed as ‘other fellow subsidiaries’.

i) Revenue from operations

Holding Company  11.28  4.90 

Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland  98.94  62.01 

- ABB Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore  53.64  105.56 

- Other fellow subsidiaries  618.46  626.59 

 771.04  794.16 

 782.32  799.06 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 125

(` in Crores)

As at December 31, 2016 2015

ii) Purchases of raw materials, components , project items and traded goods

Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB Dy. Helsinki, Finland  386.28  325.57 

- ABB AB, Vasteras, Sweden  152.05  162.62 

- Other fellow subsidiaries  1055.69  989.41 

 1594.02  1477.60

iii) Expenditure on ESAP charges

 Fellow Subsidiaries

  - ABB ESAP Limited, St. Peters’ Port, Guernsey  0.38  - 

iv) Expenditure on royalty, technology and trade-mark fees 

Holding Company  66.93  63.76 

 Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland  274.67  218.23 

- Other fellow subsidiaries  17.47  19.23 

 292.14  237.46 

 359.07 301.22

v) Expenditure on information technology, engineering, management and other services 

 Holding Company  15.72 30.41

 Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB Information Systems Ltd., Zurich, Switzerland  91.23  54.75 

- ABB Management Services Limited, Zurich, Switzerland  58.21  32.83 

- ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited, Bengaluru, India  50.55  32.87 

- ABB Oy., Helsinki, Finland  27.45  27.49 

- Other fellow subsidiaries  38.35  45.56 

 265.79  193.50 

 281.51  223.91 

vi) Expenses recovered from group companies

 Holding Company 1.34 -

 Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB AB, Västerås, Sweden  18.95  16.33 

- ABB Management Services Limited, Zurich, Switzerland  9.55  - 

- ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited, Bengaluru, India  8.82  - 

- Other fellow subsidiaries  11.98  11.42 

 49.30  27.75 

 50.64  27.75 

vii) Capital expenditure for technical know-how 

Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB S.p.A., Milan, Italy  0.79  1.32 

- ABB Oy., Helsinki, Finland  0.40  - 

- Other fellow subsidiaries  -  0.18 

 1.19  1.50 

viii) Other capital expenditure

Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB AB, Västerås, Sweden  3.43  0.18 

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland  1.04  - 

- ABB Oy, Helsinki, Finland  0.85  0.23 

- ABB S.p.A., Milan, Italy  0.19  0.81 

- ABB Power Equipment (Xiamen) Co., Ltd., Xiamen ,China  0.16  0.83 

- Newave SA, Gambarogno, Switzerland  -  0.44 

- Other fellow subsidiaries  1.51  1.25 

 7.18  3.74 



126 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(` in Crores)

As at December 31, 2016 2015

ix) Sale of assets (net)

Fellow Subsidiaries  

- ABB Bulgaria EOOD, Sofi, Bulgaria.  -  12.34 

- ABB Limited, Auckland, New Zealand.  -  0.63 

 -  12.97 

x) Long term borrowings received during the year  

 Holding Company  -  600.00 

xi) Interest Expenses

 Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB Capital B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands.  44.75  15.31 

xii) Dividend paid during the year

 Holding Company  54.16  54.16 

 Fellow Subsidiaries  4.64  4.64 

58.80 58.80

xiii) Remuneration to Managing Director  4.00  3.52 

xiv) Remuneration to Company Secretary  1.02  0.94 

xv) Remuneration to Chief Financial Officer  1.13  0.81 

Remuneration to key managerial personnel does not include provision for leave encashment and 

gratuity as it is provided in the books on the basis of actuarial valuation for the Company as a 

whole. 

c) Amount due to / from related parties

Balances in excess of 10% with a fellow subsidiary has been individually disclosed below. All other 

cases have been grouped and disclosed as ‘other fellow subsidiaries’.

i) Trade receivables

 Fellow Subsidiaries

 - ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland  32.04  - 

 - Other fellow subsidiaries  182.95  194.27 

 214.99  194.27 

 - Add/ (Less ): Impact of foreign currency restatement  1.72  (6.98)

 216.71  187.29 

ii) Loans and advances

 Fellow Subsidiaries

 - ABB High Voltage Switchgear (Xiamen) Company Ltd., Xiamen, China 1.89  1.87 

 - ABB AB., Västerås, Sweden 1.24  1.67 

 - ABB Oy, Helsinki, Finland 1.59  1.41 

 - ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland 1.83  0.98 

 - ABB Turbo Systems AG, Baden, Switzerland 1.57  - 

 - Other fellow subsidiaries  - 0.68

 8.12  6.61 

 - Add/ (Less ) :Impact of foreign currency restatement  (0.22)  (0.13)

 7.90  6.48 

iii) Other current assets

 Holding Company 2.65 2.84

 Fellow Subsidiaries

 - ABB Global Industries and Services Private Limited.,Bengaluru,India 6.00 16.34

 - ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland 17.59  7.91 

 - Other fellow subsidiaries 6.64 5.66

30.23 29.91

32.88 32.75

 - Add/ (Less ) :Impact of foreign currency restatement  0.07  0.02 

 32.95  32.77 



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 127

(` in Crores)

As at December 31, 2016 2015

iv) Trade payables

Fellow Subsidiaries  

- ABB Oy, Helsinki, Finland  143.54  122.38 

- ABB AB, Västerås, Sweden  56.25  50.08 

- ABB Schweiz AG, Baden, Switzerland  42.93  63.19 

- Other fellow subsidiaries  353.12  336.81 

 595.84  572.46 

- Add/ (Less ): Impact of foreign currency restatement  (3.17)  4.75 

 592.67  577.21 

v) Other liabilities

Holding Company  11.53  20.79 

Fellow Subsidiaries

- PT ABB Sakti Industri.,Jakarta,Indonesia  3.16  5.70 

- Other fellow subsidiaries  18.42  21.22 

 21.58  26.92 

 33.11  47.71 

- Add/ (Less ) :Impact of foreign currency restatement  0.02  0.18 

 33.13  47.89 

vi) Interest accrued but not due 

Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB Capital B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands.  3.13  3.56 

vii) Long term borrowings outstanding 

Fellow Subsidiaries

- ABB Capital B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands.  600.00  600.00 

 There are no loans/ advances/ investment made by the Company in its Holding Company, Subsidiary, Associate or 

loans / advances to any Director.

        

41. Exchange rate variation - (gain) / loss (net) for the year includes gain on account of fair valuation of foreign exchange 

forward contracts for firm trade commitments amounting to ` 5.14 crores (Previous Year gain of ` 0.74 crores).   

       

42. Provisions 

       

a)  Movement in provisions: (Figures in brackets are in respect of the previous year)    

  

(` in Crores)

Class of provisions As at January 1, 

2016

Additions Amounts used Unused Amounts 

reversed

As at December 31, 2016

Warranties  144.15  131.00  54.45  68.46  152.24 

 (125.33)  (157.58)  (53.97)  (84.79)  (144.15)

Loss orders  49.58  35.47  51.15  -  33.90 

 (55.60)  (47.45)  (53.47)  -  (49.58)

Litigations  11.98  -  -  -  11.98 

 (11.98)  -  -  -  (11.98)

Sales tax  86.38  22.82  2.75  9.30  97.15 

 (80.88)  (29.73)  (0.57)  (23.66)  (86.38)



128 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

b) Nature of provisions:

        

i) Warranties: The Company provides warranties for its products, systems and services, undertaking to 

repair or replace the items that fail to perform satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision made 

as at December 31, 2016 represents the amount of the expected cost based on technical evaluation and 

past experience of meeting such obligations. It is expected that this expenditure will be incurred over the 

contractual warranty period.      

      

ii)  Loss orders: A provision for expected loss on construction contracts is recognised when it is probable that 

the contract costs will exceed total contract revenue. For all other contracts loss order provisions are made 

when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation under the contract exceed the currently estimated 

economic benefits.      

      

iii)  Provision for litigation represents claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts that are 

expected to materialise in respect of matters in litigation. The outflow would depend on the cessation of 

the respective events.      

      

iv)  Provision for sales tax represents mainly the differential sales tax liability on account of non – collection of 

declaration forms. The outflow would depend on the cessation of the respective events.

43. The employees of the Company are entitled to purchase shares of ABB Limited., Zurich (the ultimate holding 

company) on the settlement date, at a price fixed based on the fair market price on the grant date under ABB 

employee share acquisition plan. During the year, the Company has been cross charged ` 0.38 crores (Previous Year 

` Nil crores) towards the above including administrative charges and this has been charged in the statement of 

profit and loss under the head salaries, wages and bonus.

 The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India has issued a guidance note on accounting for ‘employee share-based 

payments’, which is applicable to employee share based payment plans. The scheme detailed above is managed and 

administered, compensation benefits in respect of the scheme is assessed and accounted by the ultimate holding 

company, except for the obligation towards expenses cross charged as above. Accordingly, the Company is of the 

opinion that there is no further accounting treatment/ disclosure required under the said guidance note. 

        

44. Derivative Instruments       

i) Forward cover for foreign currency trade receivables outstanding as of balance sheet date is ` 328.10 crores 

(Previous Year ` 271.45 crores).      

ii) Forward cover for expected future sales or highly probable forecast transaction as of balance sheet date is  

` 136.88 crores (Previous Year ` 433.12 crores).      

iii) Forward cover for foreign currency trade payables outstanding as of balance sheet date is ` 732.80 crores 

(Previous Year ` 716.56 crores).      

iv) Forward cover for expected future purchases or highly probable forecast transaction as of balance sheet date is 

` 176.42 crores (Previous Year ` 440.94 crores).      

v) Foreign currency exposure (net) that are not hedged by derivative instruments or otherwise is payable  

` 354.69 crores (Previous year payable was ` 187.33 crores).      

        

45. Commodity Contracts       

        

 The Company uses commodity future contracts to hedge risk against fluctuation in commodity prices. The following 

are outstanding future contracts entered into by the Company as on December 31, 2016  

Year Commodity Number of contracts Contractual quantity Buy / Sell

2016 Copper 48 971 MTs Buy

2016 Silver 18 55,800 Ounce Buy

2015 Copper 52 1,033 MTs Buy

2015 Silver 21 50,312 Ounce Buy



ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016 129

46. The Company has defined benefit gratuity plan and provident fund plan managed by trusts. The following table 

summarises the component of net benefit expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss and the funded 

status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet.

(` in Crores)

2016 2015

Gratuity Provident 

Fund

Gratuity Provident Fund

i) Change in benefit obligations

 Projected benefit obligations at beginning of the period  113.92  484.95  106.68  427.66 

Current service cost  9.40  17.72  9.18  16.63 

Contribution by plan participants (employees)  -  49.87  -  48.71 

Transfer of employees  -  (39.07)  -  - 

Interest cost  8.43  38.92  7.99  37.46 

 Benefits paid  (17.06)  (47.26)  (13.64)  (44.55)

 Actuarial loss/(gain)  17.78  1.44  3.71  (0.96)

 Projected benefit obligations at the end of the period  132.47  506.57  113.92  484.95 

 

ii) Change in plan assets

 Plan assets at the beginning of the period, at fair value  112.57  487.55  97.97  430.62 

Contributions  12.91  67.17  19.01  65.06 

Expected return on plan assets  9.72  39.26  8.86  36.42 

 Transfer of employees  -  (39.07)  -  - 

Actuarial (loss)/gain  (0.67)  -  0.37  - 

 Benefits paid  (17.06)  (47.26)  (13.64)  (44.55)

 Plan assets at the end of the period, at fair value  117.47  507.65  112.57  487.55 

 

iii) Actual return on plan assets

Expected return on plan assets  9.72  39.26  8.86  36.42 

Actuarial (loss)/gain on plan assets  (0.67)  -  0.37  - 

Actual return on plan assets  9.05  39.26  9.23  36.42 

iv) Present value of the defined benefit obligation  132.47  506.57  113.92  484.95 

 Plan assets at the end of the period, at fair value  117.47  507.65  112.57  487.55 

 Liability recognised in the balance sheet  15.00  -  1.35  - 

 

v) Expense recognised in the statement of profit & loss

 Current service cost  9.40  17.72  9.18  16.63 

 Interest cost  8.43  38.92  7.99  37.46 

Expected return on plan assets  (9.72)  (39.26)  (8.86)  (36.42)

Actuarial loss/(gain)  18.45  1.44  3.34  (0.96)

 Total *  26.56  18.82  11.65  16.71 

 * Excludes contribution to recognised provident fund

 

vi) Investment Details (% invested)

GOI securities 10.9 18.5 13.6 21.5

State government securities 12.5 24.5 13.4 20.0

PSU securities 13.0 38.9 14.0 40.0

Special deposit scheme / Funds with LIC  58.1 4.6 53.3 4.1

Others (including bank balances) 5.5  13.5 5.7  14.4 

100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0

vii) Assumptions 

 Interest rate for discount - per annum 6.70% 6.70% 8.00% 8.00%

Estimated rate of return on plan assets - per annum 8.40% 8.75% 8.80% 8.75%



130 ABB INDIA LIMITEDABB ANNUAL REPORT 2016

(` in Crores)

viii) Experience Adjustment 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 

Gratuity

Defined benefit obligation  132.47  113.92  106.68  90.50  87.49 

Plan assets  117.47  112.57  97.97  89.18  81.17 

Surplus / (deficit)  (15.00)  (1.35)  (8.71)  (1.32)  (6.32)

Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 

(gain) / loss

 17.78  (3.71)  (1.18)  1.56  2.38 

Experience adjustments on plan assets  

(loss) / gain

 (0.67)  0.37  (0.11)  (0.11)  0.41 

Provident Fund

Defined benefit obligation  506.57  484.95  427.66  361.88  324.73 

Plan assets  507.65  487.55  430.62  364.98  323.48 

Surplus / (deficit)  1.08  2.60  2.96  3.10  (1.25)

Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 

(gain) / loss

 (1.89)  (0.91)  (1.41)  9.32  (8.05)

Experience adjustments on plan assets  

(loss) / gain

 0.54  0.55  -  0.10  1.33 

Notes: 

a) Gratuity Plan       

 Gratuity is payable to all eligible employees of the Company as per the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 

1972 or as per the Company’s scheme, whichever is higher.      

       

b) Provident Fund Plan      

 The Company manages provident fund plan through a provident fund trust for its employees which is permitted 

under the Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. The Contribution by employee and employer 

together with interest are payable at the time of separation from service or retirement whichever is earlier.  

       

c) Assumptions relating to future salary increases, attrition, interest rate for discount and overall expected rate of 

return on assets have been considered based on relevant economic factors such as inflation, market growth and 

other factors applicable to the period over which the obligation is expected to be settled.    

       

d) The Company expects to contribute ` 15.00 crores (Previous Year ` 13.00 crores) to gratuity fund and ` 2.00 

crores (Previous Year ` 18.00 crores) to provident fund in 2017.      

       

e) The attrition rate for gratuity varies from 1% to 8% for various age groups.     

         

47. In accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013, the Company is required to contribute ` 7.49 crores 

(Previous Year ` 5.56 crores) towards CSR expenditure for the year ended December 31, 2016 against which actual 

capital expenditure is ` 4.96 crores (Previous Year ` 1.24 crores) and revenue expenditure is ` 2.45 crores (Previous 

Year ` 0.46 crores).       

        

48. The previous year figures have been regrouped/ reclassified, where necessary, to conform with the current year’s 

classifications.        

        

As per our report of even date    

    

For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP     For and on behalf of the Board

ICAI Firm Registration Number : 101049W/E300004   

Chartered Accountants      Frank Duggan                   Chairman 

        Sanjeev Sharma               Managing Director 

Per Navin Agrawal       Nasser Munjee                  Director  

Partner        T. K. Sridhar                       Chief Financial Officer

Membership No: 56102      B. Gururaj                           Company Secretary  

    

New Delhi, February 9, 2017      New Delhi, February 9, 2017





—
ABB India Limited

21st Floor, World Trade Center

Brigade Gateway

No.26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road

Malleshwaram West

Bengaluru – 560 055

Phone: +91 80 22949150 to 22949153

Fax: +91 80 22949148

www.abb.co.in

©
 C

o
p

y
rig

h
t 2

0
16

 A
B

B
. A

ll rig
h

ts
 re

s
e

rve
d

.


